# 2021.07.15 minutes
Time 1630 PM (BST)

- Chair – Henry Ricards (WhattTime) - (Working Group Vice Chair)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call
Abhishek Gupta - MSFT <br>
Sara Bergman - MSFT <br>
Neville Dubash - Accenture <br>
Henry Richards - WhattTime <br>
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW <br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT <br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval
Sean Mcilroy reviews the agenda. Abhishek Gupta moves to adopt the agenda. All are in favour. The agenda is agreed
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.07.08_minutes.md](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.07.08_minutes.md) - Abhishek Gupta moves to approve the minutes. All are in favour. The Minutes are agreed

## Review software carbon intensity (Discussion)
Henry Richards
 
 Review Issues - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues
 
1. Characteristic: Consequential versus Attributional - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/3 
 
 Henry lead a discission to discuss Consequential versus Attributional 
Discussion revolved around;
  - Applicable/actionable
  - Modelling for systems to measure emissions - ecommerce, traffic peaks during certain period, autoscaling solves, stress test of expeted pattern, make sure the system could meet pattern, cost modelling implications, traffic modelling applies to grid as well. More users/requests/demand for electricity, not static average. 
  - Rearchitecting solution to be more carbon efficient 
 Henry presented a ppt that highlighted the Electric grids meet flucting demand by ramping the 'marginal' generation resource. Henry discussed to meeting the load in a grid region, only the cheapest available resources at that time. As load changes, the next most expensive resource is turned on or off to meet that demand
  
  
2. What is the market perspective for this specification? - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/4 <br>
Dan - benchmark so that you can compare your software against other software to see how it is doing
 
3. Questions to consider as we shape the SCI (Deferred)<br>
  https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/5

4. Characteristic: Simple or Complex (Deferred) <br> 
  https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/6

> Note Asim Hussain Joins the meeting

## WG Meeting Schedule
WG Agreed to hold a meeting every week at the same time until further notice

## General Working Group logistics(Deferred)
Sean Mcilroy
- GSF Dictionary

## Any Other Business
Asim Hussain notified the WG that he will be stepping down as WG Chair at the next meeting.
Abhishek Gupta (MSFT) submitted his nomination as the WG Chair

> Action Item - Sean to set up an election to notify members of the vacant appointment.

## Adjournment
Henry Richards moves to approve to adjourn. All are in favour. The is closed @ 1735
