# 2021.07.29 Agenda
Time 1630 PM (BST)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Vice-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call
Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)<br>
Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)<br>
Henry Richards (WattTime)<br>
William Buchanan (MSFT)<br>
Pierre Lagarde (MSFT)<br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley (TW)<br>
Tammy McClellan (MSFT)<br>
Melanie Richards (MSFT)<br>
Chris-Lloyd Jojnes (Avanagde)<br>
Antony Hevia (MSFT)<br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
Sean Mcilroy reviews the agenda. Abhishek Gupta moves to adopt the agenda. All are in favour. The agenda is agreed
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.07.22 Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.07.22_minutes.md)
Dan Lewis-Toakley moves to approve the minutes. All are in favour. The Minutes are agreed

## Review software carbon intensity (Discussion)
 
 Abhishek started by informing the WG members of the new  [SCI progress board](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/projects/1)
 
  ### Review PRs - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls 
  
  - [Operational Emissions - edit to re-architecting software sentence](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/18)
> WG Review and Agree to merge PR
  
  - [Structure: Added Comparison Measure Section](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/13)
Henry lead a discussion to review the SCI Specification structure

Will: Change approach to savings between counterfactual and actual

Henry & Abhishek: effect should be measured against the lifespan of the decision. Change/reframing forces comparison to reduce and save emissions.

Dan: 
- Should measure combined overall total emissions reduction
- Accommodate tradeoffs
- Boundary should include all effects, operating at an appropriate scope & make sure that actions may affect other teams/groups, included in scope

Henry offered an overview (Dispatch stach ppt) of the Electric grids meet fluctuation demand by ramping the 'Marginal' generation resource. 
The scope of the impact is an individual activity or decision. As an example: running and individual workload or as complex as shifting entire stack to different cloud providers.
Move standard towards measuring an impact of a decision. Less the footprint of software.

Abhishek suggested to Try and run a case study through this SCI, in a couple of meetings time?
Will suggested to add this to the next Agenda, Abhishek Agreed

> Action Item - Sean to add the testing of a case study topic to the next Agenda <br>
> Action Item - Sean to add **Counterfactual, Operation Margin, Built Margin** to the dictionary <br>
> Action Item - Henry to provide a write up of the Dispatch stack
 
### Review Submitted Issues 

- https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues 
> Action Item - members to review and submit comments against the Software Carbon Intensity Specification open issues.
 
## WG Meeting Schedule
Abhishek Gupta
- Next meeting 05 Aug @1630 (BST) - Agreed

## Any Other Business

## Adjournment
William Buchanan motions to adjourn the meeeting. All in favor. Meeting closed


