# 2021.07.22 Minutes
Time 1630 PM (BST)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Vice-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call
Abhishek Gupta - MSFT <br>
Sara Bergman - MSFT <br>
Henry Richards - WhattTime <br>
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW <br> 
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
Sean Mcilroy reviews the agenda. Abhishek Gupta moves to adopt the agenda. All are in favour. The agenda is agreed
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.07.15_minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.07.15_minutes.md)
Dan Lewis-Toakley moves to approve the minutes. All are in favour. The Minutes are agreed

## Review software carbon intensity (Discussion)
Abhishek Gupta
 
 ### Review PRs
  - Refine Purpose - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/11
 > No comment against the PR. WG Agreed to the merge PR
  
  - Added discussion of consequential approach - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/12
 > In line comments added. WG Agreed to the merge PR

  - Structure: Added Comparison Measure Section - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/13
 > Henry to specify PR details
 
  - Added Exclusions, specifically offsets and EACs - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/14
 > Address Issue [#7](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/7)- In line comments added. WG Agreed to the merge PR
 
  - Added answers to introduction questions on the market perspective for the SCI - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/16
 > In line comments added. WG Agreed to the merge PR
 
 
### Review Submitted Issues 
- https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues

Characteristic: Consequential versus Attributional 
> Remaining things to be addressed moved to Issue [#17](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/17) - Issue Closed

What is the market perspective for this specification?
> Incorporated through PR [#16](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/16) - Issue closed

Characteristic: Calculation of emissions should not netted off using offsets
> Incorporated in PR [#14](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/14) - Issue Closed

**Action Item** - All Working Group members to review and comment on the remaining Issues

**Action Item** - Dan to create a PR to edit the architecture scaling

> Henry proposed to review the structure of the overall standard to be added to the next meeting Agenda and noted that we should apply the 80 / 20

## WG Meeting Schedule
Abhishek Gupta
- Next meeting 29 Jul @1630 (BST) 
> Agreed

## General Working Group logistics
Sean Mcilroy
- GSF Dictionary - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary
 Sean outlined the purpose of this document is to identify specific technical terms (definitions and abbreviations) used within the GSF specifications. 
 Having a common collection of definitions and abbreviations related to the GSF documents will;

Sean proposed for this document to under the control of the Standards WG.

> Abhishek Gupta Agreed to the document being under the control of the Standards WG
**Action Item** - Sean to update the GitHub repo to reflect the change

**Action Item** - Sean & Henry to work together to work on the definitions

## Any Other Business
Nothing added

## Adjournment
Henry Richards moves to adjourn. All are in favour. Meeting ajourned
