## 2021.09.02 Minutes
Time 1630 PM (BST)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Vice-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Ahhishek Gupta - MS <br>
Asim Hussain - MS <br>
Sara Bergman - MS<br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW<br>
Lopez Dominguez - Globant<br>
Henry Richard - TW<br>
Matthew Kotsenas - MS<br>
Mihaela Turturean - intesasanpaolo<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Pierre Lagarde - MS<br>
Srinivasan Rakhunathan - MS<br>
Tammy McClellan - MS<br>
Talor Allen Prewitt - MS<br>
Vaughan Knight - MS<br>
William Buchanan - MS<br>
Massimo Poli - Intesasanpaolo<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.98.02 Agenda
Sean Mcilroy reviews the agenda. Sara Bergman moves to adopt the agenda. All are in favour. The agenda is agreed
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.08.26_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.08.26_minutes.md)
Vaughan moves to approve the minutes 2021.08.26_Minutes. All are in favour. The Minutes are agreed

## Discussion NOTICE
> Abhishek Gupta

Review [discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions) section to the repository. 

**Steps reminder**
1. Start a thread in [discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)
2. As things start to coalesce, you can hit the "Convert to issue" button on the discussion thread.
3. Once the issue has settled on how it will be implemented into the SCI, create a PR.

## Review Submitted PRs
> Abhishek Gupta

1. Dictionary table converted to markdown - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary/pull/24
> WG Approved with no Objections

2. Update Dictionary - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary/pull/10
- Vaughan - Noted that the base branch was updated to use markdown tables, so this will need to be updated from HTML tables before merging.
- Comment needs to be addressed and rebased with the dev branch to get the new markdown format

3.  Resolve outstanding dictionary issues within the SCI repo - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary/pull/2
- Abhishek - WG agrees the table should be in alphabetical order. 

## Review Open Issues (Tagged High) (Live Discussion)
> Abhishek Gupta

1. Methodology For Energy Consumption - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/40

- Asim: we want to stay away from implementation recommendations; if there are 2 ways to implement the methodology then we are safe from patent issues. there is direct measurement through the meter, or everything else is a model? if we assume everything else is a model, do we want to have some requirements for the model?
- Henry-WattTime : you should include everything of significance based on tools that they have access to ; you determine what is included in the software boundary #56 and provide justification for it ; the boundary means what does your software depends on ;
- Sara Bergman : we might want to think about what happens when we have shared hardware; there are some fundamental constraints like power consumption can't exceed the input power
- Dan : there are datasets that provide figures for 0% utilization and 100% utilization
- Vaughan : a calculator is at the end of the day a model;
- what we have described is touching on the concept of software boundaries #56 - software boundary should include idle servers, we also need to figure out what is "significant" in the first place ; 
- Vaughan: but there might also be other significant components as well if we say you have to include idle machines and say it in a general enough way then that could help to address some of that here. so significance should include supporting infrastructure like DBs, ... we need to make sure we use the right term MUST or SHOULD

> Action Item - Dan / Henry / Vaughn to work together to create a PR to address this Issue and #56

2. Baseline: Do we expose (C) AND (CI) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/38
- Abhishek - We can start with saying that you MUST report the CI and you SHOULD report the C but if you can't report the C you MUST provide a reason for why not (business secrets are a legitimate reason). 
- It was also discuss the possibility of ratcheting up requirements over time.

(Following Issues Deferred)
- Regional Averages vs. Granular Carbon Intensity: What Is The Delta? - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/27
- Defining Baselines (R) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/37
- Defining software boundaries - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/56
- Wiki to be created to capture takeaways from discussions that are supplemental to the SCI - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/49

## Review Open Issues (Tagged Medium) (Deferred)
> Abhishek Gupta
- Include non-linearity in the limitations/discussions section - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/17
- Embodied Carbon (M) Needs Detail - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/31
- Disambiguate 'marginal' - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/33
- Improve Readability of Specification Methodology - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/34
- Carbon Counterfactual (Carbon Savings Quantification) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/35

## GSF Dictionary Help needed in defining terms (Deferred)
> Abhishek Gupta
- https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary/issues

## WG Meeting Schedule
> Abhishek Gupta
- Next meeting 09 Sept @1630 (BST) 
> Agreed
> 
## Any Other Business
No AOB

## Adjournment
William moves to adjourn the meeting. No objections. Meeting closed
