
# NOTE THIS MEETING WILL HAVE NO CHAIR IN ATTENDANCE - NOTHING CAN BE FORMALLY AGREED

## 2021.10.07 Agenda
Time 1630 PM (BST)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Vice-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

**Note - Chris Lloyd Jones will lead the meeting discussion**

## Roll call

> Not required
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.10.07 Agenda

> Not required
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.09.30_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/seanmcilroy29-patch-1/Agenda_Minutes/2021.09.30_Minutes_draft.md)

> Not required

## Chris
- What we worked on this past week?
  - Discussion on SRE in the SCI Discussions section  
  - Dictionary PRs agareed and merged
- What we will be working on this week?
  - SCI submissions in preparation for WG consistency review
- How you can help?
  - Review [Discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions) section on GitHub

## 2. Review Submitted PRs

### SCI - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls

> Chris Lloyd Jones

1. Adding content for calculating embodied emissions - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/94
> The group is supportive of this being merged @atg-abhishek @jawache @SaraEmilyBergman @seanmcilroy29 - but Daniel will raise a PR/issue to include more detail on hardware emissions.

2.  Added section for telemetry based vs benchmark based calculations - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/96
> The group were happy with this to be merged. @SaraEmilyBergman referenced #103 but felt that should be a separate PR.

3. Notify mailing list based on new RNA issues, and invite users to contribute to citation.CFF file - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/98
> Taylor mentioned, not ready for merge, would like to clarify what goes through the RNA process. @Sealjay will connect with @seanmcilroy29 on documentation


### Newly submitted Discussions (Discussed via Github comments)

1. Adding more examples to supporting infrastructure - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/93

2. Carbon footprint calculation for web/UI application - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/105

3. What are the requirements in how people report the SCI? - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/103

## 3. Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Live Discussion)
> Chris
- Discussion - Standards/Specifications/Certifications To Model SCI After? - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/68
- Discussion - Site reliability engineering principles and impact of SCI on them - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/92
- Discussion - Have we thought about how SRE principles will be affected? What are the meaningful metrics we can measure? - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/72
- Collection of use-case - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/99
- Add FAQ for Specification - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/100
- Ideas for effective communication / formatting of the SCI - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/106
- Connecting with those who have experience writing specifications - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/61

1. Issue - Embodied Carbon (M) Needs Detail - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/31
> We discussed this relating to #94 - the group had nothing to add. But Daniel will be adding an issue/PR relating to hardware emissions.

2. Issue - [Abhishek will be creating this before next week's meeting] Wiki to be created to capture takeaways from discussions that are supplemental to the SCI - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/49
> Sara, raised whether the dictionary should live in the wiki. Chris suggested merging Dictionary into wiki. Sean mentioned Dictionary is in-scope of Standards WG but covers whole GSF. Sara agreed and mentioned info should be factual and neutral, as we are a foundation.

Proposed sections
> Sara suggested an onboarding page be created in a GitHub, sean mentioned that a message goes out when people join, but indicated creating read this first page on a wiki page is a good idea.
Anthony Hevia agrees this would be useful. Daniel Schien agrees.
Add links to wiki from repo page.

[Tagged High Issues](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Ahigh)
[Tagged High Discussion](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Ahigh)

## 4. Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged Medium) (Live Discussion) - 
> Abhishek Gupta
- Community contributions determination - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/90
- Emissions Boundaries & Scope For SCI Equation - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/88
- How to calculate carbon intensity, do we need 24/7 hourly buckets? - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/53
- Telemetry Based and Benchmark Based SCI Calculations - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/66
- Embodied Carbon (M) Needs Detail - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/31
- What Scope? (1/2/3) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/58

[Tagged Medium Issues](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Amedium)
[Tagged Medium Discussion](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Amedium)

## 5. WG Meeting Schedule
> Chris
- Next meeting 14 Oct @1630 (BST) 

## Any Other Business

## Adjournment

> Not required
