## 2021.12.16 Minutes
Time 1630 PM (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call

Abhishek Gupta - MSFT <br>
Henry Richardshon - WT<br>
Srinivasan - Rakhunathan - MSFT<br>
Natalie Hollier - MSFT<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Rakesh Varma Siri - Accenture<br>
William Buchanan - MSFT<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>

> Note quorum not attained

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.12.16 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - WG agree the agenda
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.12.09_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.12.09_minutes.md)

> To be agreed at the next meeting

## This weeks activities

> Abhishek to lead

- What we will be working on this week?
  - SCI use cases
  - SCI V1.0

### Review Submitted SCI PRs

> Abhishek to lead

**PRs**

1. [Update Software_Carbon_Intensity_Specification.md](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/215)

> WG agreed to submit the PR into a 7 day R&A

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

> Abhishek to lead

**Issues**

1. [Replace life span with use duration in Embodied Emissions formula #213](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/213)

WG discuss the following - We would love to include the use-ratio but from conversations it seems that this would be a difficult number to get from data centres.
We might need some more information on how this applies to auto-scaling infrastructure cc @srini1978 (would be great if you can create an issue with this for future tracking)
We will explore if it is possible to get this data and then include it into the SCI. We could; have a default value for the use-ratio included in the guidelines document that may accompany the SCI

**Discussions** [Marked high](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Ahigh)

### Discussions for review

1. [Explanation of the carbon reduction goal in context of excluding infrastructure #207](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/207)

> Topic to be discussed at a later date. Henry to review this discussion with a view to creating a PR.

2. [Milestones for SCI v1](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/212)

* Case study potentials:
- Microsoft (Will) green AI training, writing up outline
- Shell (Adam) strong interest
- Goldman Sachs (Sarah)? -infrastructure
- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study

* Baselining:
- as the SCI evolves, in the interest of transparency, nice to have a back test to see how case studies would change
- Changes, made improvements, baseline SCI not applications, see how score changes.
- Implement at first major specification update?

Will made a presentation on a GSF Case Study - https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jVKDrT6MmfTJ984FbnN8zF0tCglY1jdA/view?usp=sharing

> Action Item - Will to create an issue using the new Case study temple, using this presentation as a basis.

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 06th January @1630 (GMT) 

## Any Other Business

> No other business

## Adjournment

> Henry motions to adjourn the meeting
