2021.08.05 Minutes

## Time 1630 PM (BST)

•	Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)<br>
•	Vice-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)<br>
•	Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)<br>

## Roll call
Abhishek Gupta (MSFT) <br>
Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation) <br>
William Buchanan (MSFT) <br>
Pierre Lagarde (MSFT) <br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley (TW) <br>
Tammy McClellan (MSFT) <br>
Melanie Richards (MSFT) <br>
Chris-Lloyd Jones (Avanade) <br>
Antony Hevia (MSFT) <br>
Vaughn Knight (MSFT)<br>
Sarah Hsu (GS) <br>
Siu Chan (GS) <br>
Oktawia Kata (TW) <br>
Taylor Allen Prewitt (MSFT) <br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.
Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

## Agenda Approval (decision)
Sean Mcilroy reviews the agenda. Abhishek Gupta moves to adopt the agenda. All are in favour. The agenda is agreed

## Approval of previous meeting minutes
2021.07.29_Minutes Dan Lewis-Toakley moves to approve the minutes. All are in favour. The Minutes are agreed

##  Review software carbon intensity (Discussion)
Abhishek Gupta

## Review PRs - 
1. https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls
•	Structure: Added Comparison Measure Section
To be discussed at the next meeting

> Action Item - Henry to provide a write up of the Dispatch stack

## Review Submitted Issues 
2. https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues


a. https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/19 
See Issue for submitted comments 
> Issue to be discussed offline prior to next meeting


b. https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/20 
Vaughn: Suggested the Community WG would be a good candidate for housing the FAQ document.<br>
Abhishek will bring this to the Community WG at their next meeting.

> WG agree the issue can be closed

c. https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/6 
See Issue for submitted comments <br>
Issue to be left open for further discussion

> Action Item for Sean to create an Issue for discuss the possible conformance levels for the SCI. Question – Should we have different badges for the different levels of conformance.

• https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/5 - Questions to consider as we shape the SCI

Issue left open for further discussion within the WG


d.  https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/23 
 - Goals/criteria for a case study to validate the SCI standard – 

> Action Item - Abeishek to add the ML Reproducibility checklist (Add link to issue)


e. https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/22 
How to calculate carbon intensity, do we need 24/7 hourly buckets?

Vaughn: Australia they have 5-minutes increment of pricing. EVs are going to be plugged in the evening, this will soar the demand and change the grid dynamics. (e.g. people finish work at 5pm and this kind of spike is possible)
Will: Calculations could likely be programmatic (e.g. trapezoidal rule for integration) https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.trapz.html
That is the granularity of data available from WattTime as well.
Vaughn: Yearly averages would be very different, e.g. solar intensity based on seasonal and diurnal changes
Will: the variations would be quite severe. There would be different tiers and granularity. Stating the sample rates as a part of the assumptions would be useful. Real-time curves down to 5 minutes and compare against annual calculations to see what we are missing. Might need someone with more formal experience in carbon measurement methodologies.
Sarah: The bucket will depend on the impact of the software. e.g. batch job running for 3 hours then having hourly buckets might be enough but for RT applications having even smaller buckets would be more actionable.
Will: It would depend on the scope of the workload you are calculating.

> Action Item – Will Buchanan to help bring someone in from Microsoft to offer direction with this issue.



## Specification Testing proposals (Discussion Deferred)
•	WG to discuss possible case study proposals to apply against the specification.



## GSF Dictionary review (Discussion Deferred)
•		https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary
•	WG to review submitted PRs -



## WG Meeting Schedule
Abhishek Gupta
Next meeting 12 Aug @1630 (BST) 
> Agreed



## Any Other Business
Taylor Allen Prewitt - Discuss case studies in the CI Standard (Deferred to the next meeting)



## Adjournment
Dan Lewis-Toakley motions to adjourn the meeting. All in favour. Meeting closed


