## 2021.11.01 Minutes
Time 1530 PM (GMT)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Abhishek Gupta - MSFT<br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade<br>
Lopez Dominguez - Globant<br>
Henry Richardson - TW<br>
Vaughn Knight - MSFT<br>
Mark Leveck - MSFT<br>
Sarah Hsu - GS<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture <br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.11.01 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Asim motions to approve - no objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.10.26_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.10.26_minutes.md)

> Vaughn motions to approve the minutes - No objections - Minutes agreed

## This weeks activities

> Abhishek to lead
- What we will be working on this week?
  - SCI consistency review Nov 04 --> Nov 11 

### Review Submitted SCI PRs - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls

> Abhishek to lead

**PRs** 

1. (Changes needed) Implement proposed reporting requirements from discussion 103 - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/123

2. Updating the scope to reflect latest content - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/161
> Approved by WG & Merged

3. (Ready to go) Notify mailing list based on new RNA issues, and invite users to contribute to citation.CFF file - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/98

4. Baseline comparison for savings - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/163
> Approved by WG & Merged

5. fix typo - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/165
> Approved by WG & Merged
 
6.reordering - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/168
> Approved by WG & Merged

7. Change from R from "Baseline" to "Functional Unit" - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/170
> Approved by WG & Merged
 
8. fix typo - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/165
> Approved by WG & Merged

Asim added that the SCI should have some added text 

>'This document is not a GSF International Standard. It is distributed for review and comment. It is subject to change without noitice and may not be referred to as an International Standard'.

### Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Deferred)

> Abhishek to lead 

**Issues**

1. Readability: Intro & Executive Summary - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/116

2. What are the requirements in how people report the SCI? - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/156

3. SCI phrasing improvements (#130, #136, #143, #144, #149, #153, #154, #164, #169) 

**Discussions**

[Tagged High Discussion](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Ahigh)

### Motion to begin the Consistency Review 
> WG agreed to start the consistency review after the Thursday meeting

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 04th Nov @1630 (GMT) 

> Agreed

## Any Other Business

> Nothing added

## Adjournment

Asim motions to adjourn the meeting - No objections - Meeting adjourned
