## 2021.08.12 Agenda
Time 1630 PM (BST)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Vice-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call
Abhishek Gupta (MSFT) <br>
Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation) <br>
William Buchanan (MSFT) <br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley (TW) <br>
Tammy McClellan (MSFT) <br>
Melanie Richards (MSFT) <br>
Chris-Lloyd Jones (Avanade) <br>
Antony Hevia (MSFT) <br>
Vaughn Knight (MSFT)<br>
Sarah Hsu (GS) <br>
Sara Bergman (MSFT) <br>
Taylor Allen Prewitt (MSFT) <br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
Sean Mcilroy reviews the agenda. Abhishek Gupta moves to adopt the agenda. All are in favour. The agenda is agreed
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
Abhishek Gupta moves to approve the minutes [2021.08.05_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.08.05_Minutes.md). All are in favour. The Minutes are agreed

## Case studies in the CI Standard (Discussion)
> Taylor Allen Prewitt/William Buchanan

Taylor lead the discussion by presenting the Carbon-Aware API and started by highlighting the Scenarios - Scenarios:
1) Retrospective analysis: analyze benefits of load shifting/compare methodologies
• Import AZMon energy profile to for detailed analysis
2) Regional carbon-intensity exploration
3) Workload scheduling: shift jobs (time/region) to optimize emissions

Will: Using a lifecycle methodology thinking about training, inference, etc. will help

Vaughn: where does the inference happen will also help - embodied cost in the device that is on the edge vs. having to go to the cloud

Abhishek: you can cache frequently used results rather than doing fresh inferences every time

Will: Triton better packs inferences on the GPU which helps to get more in terms of the utilization of the hardware

## Case study proposal (Discussion)
> Asim Hussain
- https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/21

Asim begins the discussion by reviewing the Use Case: Measuring the total carbon emissions for Windows
I like the idea of deciding on our initial set of characteristics and then running through a few different uses cases, the characteristics are the guard rails in the brainstorming, make sure we don't go into a direction that breaks one of our characteristics.

- Windows
- The open-source TensorFlow framework
- A "TensorFlow As A Service" cloud app
- A web app
- A mobile app

Taylor: Might be interesting to add DAPR or kind of multi-cloud abstraction - I can see those layers adding overhead, but also an agnostic framework for instrumenting for telemetry.
Asim: Some things might not include hardware, in some places hardware might not be considered at all.

Abhishek: The actions taken by the people designing TF would be different from those who are using TF as a service.

Will: it’s a taxonomy of decisions, each with a different sphere of influence

Sara: you also want the developers who are using the services to use them smartly where you might have made the API to be green but if people are using it in a way that makes a lot of calls then that negates that green gain

Asim: what we need to think about is if taking the action reduces the carbon emissions

Vaughn: if we propose numbers that are software-driven then that might be hard for people to act in; there might be different numbers for different parts of the software solution

Henry: if we're measuring something and we can't take an action against it, then there is no point of the measurement either
Tying the measurement to action would be what is useful

Dan: not being able to take an action might be a political thing

Asim: software, architecture, or any other choice. actions fall into : (1) use less energy (2) use less hardware (3) using the energy more intelligently (carbon-aware)
if there was a regulation - would the SCI help to reduce the carbon emissions?

Vaughn: coming up with a number (an index) - lower number is better would be the good way to go ; it needs to be measured in a consistent way

Asim: the number doesn't need to be accurate, as long as it is directional that might be enough
standard of measure stops becoming useful when you have an action that you want to take but it isn't captured in the standard - as an example this is the problem with the GHG protocol
we should then utilize the use cases to see what are the actions that we know wholeheartedly better are actually reflected in the standard

Taylor: people understand the negative consequences of 'emissions' more than 'kWh'. Also, the WG may want to talk about the actions that are possible; and potentially support those in a future version - but to my mind, anything measured as a KPI still drives change. What is measured drives behaviour change. That’s not to say actions shouldn’t be recommended, but I think the measuring in and of itself is useful - and still has a point.
Abhishek: this might be very useful from a human-understandability to make more sense to the people
  
## Review Submitted PRs (Deferred)
> Henry Richards
- Structure: Added Comparison Measure Section - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/13

## WG Workflow review (Deferred)
> Abhishek Gupta
- Workflow and labelling discussion, including [utilization of R&A](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/the_way_we_work.md#standards-working-group-approval-process) to move things along between meetings

## Review Open Issues (Deferred)
> Abhishek Gupta
- https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues

## GSF Dictionary review (Deferred)
> Sean Mcilroy/Abhishek Gupta
- https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary

## WG Meeting Schedule
> Abhishek Gupta
- Next meeting 19 Aug @1630 (BST) 

## Any Other Business

GS Bot added to the WG repo <br>
WG agreed to make all the repositories public. 
> Motion will be submitted for WG agreement at the next meeting.

## Adjournment
Vaughn Knight moves to Adjourn. All are in favour. Meeting closed
