## 2021.08.26 Agenda
Time 1630 PM (BST)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Vice-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call
* Name Surname, (Company)  
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.08.19 Agenda
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.08.19_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.08.19_minutes.md)

## NOTICE

> Asim can mention briefly the change based on discussion between Abhishek and Asim earlier today

There is now a [discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions) section to the repository. From hereon, our workflow will be:
1. Start a thread in [discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)
2. As things start to coalesce, you can hit the "Convert to issue" button on the discussion thread.
3. Once the issue has settled on how it will be implemented into the SCI, create a PR.

More details on the specifics for this will come in next week's meeting.

## Review Submitted PRs
https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls

> Asim 
- Added ref to principles.green and moved to markdown table - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/44
> Asim 
- Updating and adding core characteristics for low bar for implementation - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/43
> Asim 
- Actions you can take to make software greener - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/42
> Chris Lloyd-Jones 
- Add latex for O, C, CI, R, and O - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls/39
> Will
- Carbon Counterfactual For Carbon Savings Quantification - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/46
> Chris
- Resolve outstanding dictionary issues within the SCI repo - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary/pull/2

## Review Open Issues (Tagged High) (Live Discussion)
> Henry Richards
- Methodology For Energy Consumption - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/40
- Baseline: Do we expose (C) AND (CI) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/38
- Regional Averages vs. Granular Carbon Intensity: What Is The Delta? - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/27
- Defining Baselines (R) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/37
- Defining software boundaries - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/56

## Review Open Issues (Tagged Medium) (Live Discussion)
> Henry Richards
- Include non-linearity in the limitations/discussions section - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/17
- Embodied Carbon (M) Needs Detail - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/31
- Disambiguate 'marginal' - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/33
- Improve Readability of Specification Methodology - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/34
- Carbon Counterfactual (Carbon Savings Quantification) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/35

## GSF Dictionary Help needed in defining terms (issues created)
> Sean Mcilroy/Henry Richards
- https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary/issues

## WG Meeting Schedule
> Henry Richards
- Next meeting 02 Sept @1630 (BST) 

## Any Other Business

## Adjournment
