## 2021.10.14 Agenda
Time 1630 PM (BST)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Asim Hussain - MS<br>
William Buchanan - MS<br>
Chris Lloyd Jones - Avanade<br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW<br>
Henry Richards - WT<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Paul Shabajee - BU<br>
Sara Bergman - MS<br>
Daniel Shein - BU<br>
Santiago Fontanarrosa - Globant<br>
Vaughn Knight - MS <br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.10.14 Agenda
> Sean reviews the agenda - Will motions to approve the agenda - no objections - Agenda agreed
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.09.30_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/seanmcilroy29-patch-1/Agenda_Minutes/2021.09.30_Minutes_draft.md)

> Chris motions to approve the agenda - no objectsions - minutes agreed

Henry to lead

- What we will be working on this week?
  - SCI final edits prior to the start of a consistency review Oct 21 --> Oct 28
- How you can help?
  - Submit your final comments PRs prior to the Oct 21 meeting - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity

### SCI shortfall [Discussion]

Henry to lead

Review of the current SCI baseline - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/blob/dev/Software_Carbon_Intensity/Software_Carbon_Intensity_Specification.md

- Working group to review the SCI to determine if there are any major gaps that have yet to be added.

The aim is to start a consistency review on Oct 21 --> Oct 28. Resolve any submitted comments at the 28th Oct meeting and motion to approve the SCI for publication. 

> In this phase, the SCI will be formally reviewed by the group. A Review period is open for members to submit comments/PRs. After this period, the Working Group will review all the submitted issues/PRs.
> Once the WG completes the SCI Consistency Review, there will be a motion to agreed the Spec for publicaiton, prior to the Steering Committee ratification.

WG discussion - Chris - I think we should define the hierarchical structure of the machine readable data format - but then allow consumers of the spec to select their day format of choice. Be that json, yaml, or at worst (IMHO) xml, etc.
So we shouldn't discourage PDF or website publishing, but we should state that the authoritative source of truth be machine readable, in my opinion.

WG agreed to the following updates:
- Baseline, allowable R's
  - Reporting propose structure, can use tool of choise
  - Machine readable
Adding introductions/core characteristics/Executive summary of methodology

What does the software scale by?

WG Suggestions

- API Call/requests (per call)
- Benchmark (Version)
- User (account/person/per install/machine
- Minute (time unit)
- Device/Phsical site (Home factory, device)
- Data volume ( byte through system)
- Job (Batch jobs, training rounds)
- Transaction (Payment systems)

Question posed - Comparaibility important for standarisation?
Features of product are different, hard to compare and useful internally for making decisions. Additionally the existing metric, needs to be made clearer. Some consumers will make decisions based on intensity.

### Review Submitted PRs - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls
> Henry to lead

1. Appendix A : Guidelines on how to define a SRE metric based on Software Carbon Intensity.md - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/110
> Working group agrees this is not suited for specification. May be better suited as a blog post or v2 update.

2. SCI Editorial updates - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/111
> Approved - WG Merged

3. Grammar/Spelling updates - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/112
> Approved - WG Merged

4. Escape asterisks - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/113
> Approved - WG Merged

### Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Live Discussion)
> Henry to lead

[Tagged High Issues](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Ahigh)

[Tagged High Discussion](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Ahigh)

## 5. WG Meeting Schedule
> Henry to confirm

- Next meeting 21 Oct @1630 (BST) 

## Any Other Business

## Adjournment
