## 2021.11.18 Agenda
Time 1630 PM (GMT)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call

Abhishek Gupta - MSFT <br>
Henry Richards - WattTime <br>
Sean Mcilroy - Linux Foundation <br>
Alyssa Cooper -  MSFT <br>
Bill Johnson -  MSFT <br>
Lopez Dominguez - Globant <br>
Navveen Balaini - Accentre <br>
Rakesh Varma Siri - Accenture <br>
Sarah Hsu - GS <br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT <br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.11.18 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Sarah (GS) motions to Approve - No objections - Approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.11.11_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.11.11_minutes.md)

> Sarah (GS) motions to Approve the agenda - No Objections - Approved

## This weeks activities

> Abhishek starts the meeting by congratulating the SWG members for their efforts in getting the SCI alpha.v approved 

- What we will be working on this week?
  - SCI use cases
  - SCI V1.0

### Review Submitted SCI PRs

> Abhishek to lead

**Discussions**

1. [Treatment of Renewable Generation in Specification #203](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/203)

2. [Consider Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) #197](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/197)

Abhisek opens up the discussion by reviewing the Consider Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) previously submitted comments

a. Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) SHOULD be included under E
b. Since there are no standards for its calculation and reporting (that we know of) we can provide a recommended list of things to include and if anything is excluded from that list, they MUST report why it was excluded
c. We need to investigate also if PUE is included in some of the existing energy metrics

3. [Provide Exemplary Case Studies #196](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/196)

Abhisek opens up the discussion by reviewing the Provide Exemplary Case Studies previously submitted comments
Sarah suggest we could have a base set of case studies that are applied to each version of the SCI release with the intention of illustrating the changes in the SCI over time - it would not be used as a gating mechanism

a. Case study on UNIX (~to the Windows one proposed by @jawache )
b. Some minimal version of an SRE case study @greenhsu123 (some reduction in the complexity can drive efficiency as well - @dubrie )
c. If there is an SLO in place, you can shift the location and timing
d. @atg-abhishek to link back the existing SRE discussion

**[PRs]( https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls)** 

1. [Implement proposed reporting requirements from discussion 103 #123](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/123)

Abhisek opens up the discussion by reviewing the Provide Exemplary Case Studies previously submitted comments and he suggest that we might take one of the case studies and then demonstrate the reporting based on that.
As the submitter wasn't available this topic will be revisited at the next meeting.

> Action Item - Creating a tempate for case studies

### Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

> Abhishek to lead

**Issues**

1. [What are the requirements in how people report the SCI? #156](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/156)

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 25th Nov @1630 (GMT) 
> Agreed

## Any Other Business
Asim thanks both Chairs and members of the WG for their hard work in getting the SC approved.

## Adjournment
Sarah motions to adjourn - No objections - Meeting closed

