## 2021.08.26 Minutes
Time 1630 PM (BST)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Vice-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call
 Lopez Dominguez (Globant)
 Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation) <br>
 William Buchanan (MSFT) <br>
 Dan Lewis-Toakley (TW) <br>
 Chris-Lloyd Jones (Avanade) <br>
 Vaughn Knight (MSFT)<br>
 Dave Elliman (TW) <br>
 Taylor Allen Prewitt (MSFT) <br>
 Asim Hussain (MSFT)<br>
 Henry Richards (WT)<br>
 Siu Chan (GS)<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.08.26 Agenda
Sean Mcilroy reviews the agenda. Asim moves to adopt the agenda. All are in favour. The agenda is agreed
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.08.19_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.08.19_minutes.md)

#### [WG Discussion](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)
Asim provides an overview of the new workflow with the [discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions) section in the repository. 
This approach to will keep the issues clean.

Steps to follow;
1. Start a thread in [discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)
2. As things start to coalesce, you can hit the "Convert to issue" button on the discussion thread.
3. Once the issue has settled on how it will be implemented into the SCI, create a PR.

More details on the specifics for this will come in next week's meeting.

## Review Submitted PRs
https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls

#### 1 [Actions you can take to make software greener](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/42)
> WG reviewed & Agreed the PR - PR Merged

#### 2 [Updating and adding core characteristics for low bar for implementation](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/43)
- Comment - This is a meta directive to the drafters of the standard, may need to be in a separate part of the standard/not in the standard. Potentially in a separate document in the standard.
> WG reviewed & Agreed the PR - PR Merged
>Action Item - Sean to forward Chris the latest LF build information

#### 3 [Added ref to principles.green and moved to markdown table](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/44)
> WG reviewed & Agreed the PR - PR Merged

#### 4 [Add latex for O, C, CI, R, and O](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls/39)
Asim proposed to make this a build step <br>
Action Item - Chris to Review LF build tools and provide recommendations

#### 5 [Carbon Counterfactual For Carbon Savings Quantification](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/46)
Will - To avoid confusion (took me a while to figure out what exactly counterfactual meant in this context) may I propose we call this concept carbon delta? That I feel is much easier to understand at a glance for a layperson and more approachable.
> WG reviewed & Agreed the PR - PR Merged
> Action Item - Will to resolve merge conflict prior to the PR being merged

#### 6 [Resolve outstanding dictionary issues within the SCI repo](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary/pull/2)
> WG reviewed & Agreed the PR - PR Merged


## [Review Open Issues - Tagged High](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Ahigh)

#### 1 [Defining software boundaries](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/56)
Built environment/building should be excluded, if it is a selectable factor that is possible, could affect emissions effect of software running
You must include anything within the sphere of influence, Significance test as what should be included, proposed to be left to developer, explicitly state what is in the boundary
Running transaction at the time? Running cost, chain of events that occur, measure emissions of that ingress and egress of data between locations how to measure scope for differnetn developers
different software domains will snap to different natural fits Run through use cases to demonstrate Convert to a pull request?
"You must include anything within the sphere of influence of the software that meets a (self determined) significance test as what should be included, proposed to be left to developer, explicitly state what is in the boundary "

> Action Item - Henry to discuss this issue with Abhishek with a view to creating a PR

**The following Issues were deferred** 
- Methodology For Energy Consumption - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/40
- Baseline: Do we expose (C) AND (CI) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/38
- Regional Averages vs. Granular Carbon Intensity: What Is The Delta? - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/27
- Defining Baselines (R) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/37

## GSF Dictionary Help needed in defining terms (deferred)
> Sean Mcilroy/Henry Richards
- https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary/issues


> NOTED: Request to all members of the Standards Working Group to review the [discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions) in addition to the regular request for issues and PR prior to the next call.

## WG Meeting Schedule
> Henry Richards
- Next meeting 02 Sept @1630 (BST) 

## Any Other Business

## Adjournment
Will moves to adjourn the meeting. No objections. Meeting closed
