## 2021.12.02 Agenda
Time 1630 PM (GMT)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.12.02 Agenda
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.11.18_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/20211118_Minutes.md)

## This weeks activities

> Abhishek to lead

- What we will be working on this week?
  - SCI use cases
  - SCI V1.0

### Review Submitted SCI PRs

> Abhishek to lead

**Discussions**

1. [Software system boundary requirements for comparing scores #208](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/208)
2. [Embodied Emissions: consider making estimate of all the embodied emissions optional #190](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/190)
3. [Explanation of the carbon reduction goal in context of excluding infrastructure #207](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/207)

**[PRs]( https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls)** 

1. [Implement proposed reporting requirements from discussion 103 #123](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/123)
2. [Added Template for Case Studies](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/206)

### Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

> Abhishek to lead

**Issues**

1. [What are the requirements in how people report the SCI? #156](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/156)

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 9th December @1630 (GMT) 

## Any Other Business

## Adjournment
