## 2021.09.09 Minutes
Time 1630 PM (BST)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Vice-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call


Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Henry Richards - WT<br>
Abhishek Gupta - MS<br>
Asim Hussain - MS<br>
Lopez Dominguez - Globant<br>
Matthew Kotsenas - MS<br>
Mihaela Turturean - ISP<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Pierre Lagarde - MS<br>
Santiago Fontanarrosa - Globant<br>
Sara Bergman - MS<br>
Sarah Hsu - GS<br>
Tammy McClellan - MS<br>
Taylor Allen Prewitt - MS<br>
William Buchanan - MS<br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW<br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.9.8.09 Agenda
Sean Mcilroy reviews the agenda. Asim Hussain moves to adopt the agenda. All are in favour. The agenda is agreed

## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.09.02_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.09.02_minutes.md)
Asim Hussain moves to approve the minutes 2021.09.02_Minutes. All are in favour. The Minutes are agreed

## 1. Review Submitted PRs
> Abhishek Gupta

1 Move action discussion - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/69
> Approved by working group & merged

2 Boundary Inclusion Requirement - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/70
> Approved by working group

3 Energy Boundary - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/71
> Approved by working group

4 Guidance on reporting the SCI value - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/73
> Approved by working group


## 2. Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Live Discussion)
> Abhishek Gupta

1 Regional Averages vs. Granular Carbon Intensity: What Is The Delta? - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/27
> Moved this from In progress to Review in progress

2 Have we thought about how SRE principles will be affected? What are the meaningful metrics we can measure? - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/72

Q. Change the frequency of scraping based on SLO targets? - Abhishek indicated the SLO needs to be harmonized with the "green" targets that the organization has so that we can achieve the functional requirements at the same time being able to meet environmental commitments as well.

Q.Can (should) we measure the total carbon emissions for a given SLI? - Abhishek - Yes I think we should. 

Q. Can (should) we do monitoring on demand? - Abhisek - Monitoring on demand is an interesting idea, not sure how that would impact the other downstream SRE metrics that are reliant on monitoring being ever-present.

3 [PR #71 should close this] Methodology For Energy Consumption - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/40
> Approved by the WG & Merged

4 [PR #73 should close this] Baseline: Do we expose (C) AND (CI) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/38
> Approved by the WG & Merged

5  [Minor change to PR #73 should close this] Defining Baselines (R) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/37
> Approved by the WG & Merged

6 [PR #70 closes this] Defining software boundaries - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/56
> Approved by the WG & Merged

> ACTION ITEM: Abhishek will be creating a Wiki to capture takeaways from discussions that are supplemental to the SCI - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/49

## 3. Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged Medium) (Live Discussion)
> Abhishek Gupta

1 Embodied Carbon (M) Needs Detail - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/31
Will suggested to incorporate lifespan (e.g. how do we amortize embodied carbon?). From MS studies, it's shown that lifespan can be highly variable and hard to estimate.

2 Telemetry Based and Benchmark Based SCI Calculations - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/66
> updates for notice

3 Include non-linearity in the limitations/discussions section - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/17
> WG Agree to convert to discussion

4 Disambiguate 'marginal' - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/33
> WG agreed to close

5 Improve Readability of Specification Methodology - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/34
> WG agreed to close

6 Carbon Counterfactual (Carbon Savings Quantification) - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/35
> closed based on merged PR #46 

## 4. Discussions NOTICE (Deferred)
> Abhishek Gupta
- Review [discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions) section to the repository. 


## 5. GSF Dictionary Help needed in defining terms (Deferred)
> Abhishek Gupta
- https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary/issues

## 6. WG Meeting Schedule
> Abhishek Gupta
- Next meeting 16 Sept @1630 (BST) 

> Agreed

## Any Other Business

## Adjournment
William moves to adjourn the meeting. No objections. Meeting closed
