## 2021.12.02 Agenda
Time 1630 PM (GMT)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call

Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Abhishek Gupta - MSFT <br>
Henry Richardson - WT <br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT<br>
Adam Jordan - Shell<br>
Bill Johnson - MSFT<br>
Colleen Josephson - VMware<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade<br>
Natalie Hollier - MSFT <br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Sarah Hsu - GS<br>
Srinivasan Rakhunathan - MSFT<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>
Daniel Schein - BU<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.12.02 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Asim motions to approve the agenda - no objections - approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.11.18_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/20211118_Minutes.md)

> Tammy motions to approve the minutes - No objections - approved

### Review Submitted SCI PRs

> Abhishek to lead

**Discussions**

1. [Software system boundary requirements for comparing scores #208](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/208)

WG Noted:
Working group thoughts:
- We agree that 'significant' is currently vague.
- Future versions my be more prescriptive. To start, this lets users figure it out themselves.
- May be linked to future reporting requirements. Publishing how you calculated the score.
- Use cases will help illustrate what may or may not be significant

2. [Embodied Emissions: consider making estimate of all the embodied emissions optional #190](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/190)

Working group thoughts:
-even though data is sparse, using defaults or averages may meaningfully inform decisions
-If included will pressure/create demand for this data
-Making optional could maintain status quo and lead to organizations under report
-Comes up frequently, may make sense to include a data requirements discussion
-Benjamin Davies formula for embodied emissions is straightforward and effective to get started (but can be hard to find all components)
-in Wiki?: https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/wiki
-USGBC/LEED as a good model or a cautionary tale for clarifying requirements?
-Current plan is to retain it as a requirement
-SCI data project will help provide data
-'Error bounds' in UI? In reporting requirements?
-best and worst cases
-Underreported data will unlikely to be corrected, should overestimate, forcing organizations to report correctly
-tending to overreporting will help push.

3. [Explanation of the carbon reduction goal in context of excluding infrastructure #207](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/207)

**[PRs]( https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls)** 

Working Group:
- We need to more clearly explain our position
- Pickup next week (2021/12/9)

1. [Implement proposed reporting requirements from discussion 103 #123](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/123) - [Deferred]

2. [Added Template for Case Studies](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/206)

> WG review and agree PR [PR Merged]

### Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

> Abhishek to lead

**Issues**

3. [What are the requirements in how people report the SCI? #156](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/156) - [Deferred]

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 9th December @1630 (GMT)
d> Agreed 

## Any Other Business

4. WG reviewed the GSF Reference Guide/Manual - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/wiki/Green-Software-Foundation-Reference-Guide-Manual

> Noted

## Adjournment

motions to Adjourn - No objections - Meeting closed
