## 2021.12.09 Minutes
Time 1630 PM (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy (LF) <br>
Henry Richardson (WT)<br>
William Buchanan (MSFT)<br>
Adam Jordan (Shell)<br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley (TW)<br>
Lopez Dominguez (Globant)<br>
Natalie Hollier (MSFT?)<br>
Navveen Balani (Accenture)<br>
Rakesh Varma Siri (Accenture)<br>
Sarah Hsu (GS)<br>
Alyssa Cooper (MSFT)<br>
Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.12.09 Agenda

> Sean reviews the Agenda - Will motions to approve - No objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.12.02_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.12.02_minutes.md)

> Will motions to approve the previous meeting minutes - No objections - Minutes Approved

## This weeks activities

> Henry outlines what the WG objective will be for the coming week

  - SCI use cases to be submitted
  - Alpha version of the SCI to be working on, with a view to producing a v1.0 early next year.

### Review Submitted SCI PRs

> Henry leads the following;

**Discussions**

1. [Explanation of the carbon reduction goal in context of excluding infrastructure #207](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/207)

Henry starts the discussion by reviewing the discussion 'Explanation of the carbon reduction goal in context of excluding infrastructure'.
The WG submitted the following comments;

Landed on reporting system level impacts
which may exclude "market instruments"
"market instruments are not intrinsic characteristics of the software that can be improved by the developer"
All mechanisms for offsetting impact after consumption has been established

Turn into PR
Can do blog post/wiki as needed? - strongly recommended by writers

Grid connected onsite renewables/Rooftop solar? - excluded from calculation due to system thinking
If you were to install solar on DC, could not attribute solar production to particular code, would be feeding into larger system/grid
That solar would produce energy regardless of the demand/software running in DC.
The renewables improvements do decrease emissions in the system, and that effect can be measured, but not linked to the software

Blog:
-Systems thinking/consequential
Ex:
-off grid
-interconnected data center
-market instruments
-Carbon is still being emitted, score does not allow you to "buy your way" to a better score
-rooftop solar/onsite renewables and how to treat
-Solar/onsite renewables is still reducing system emissions, separate action reflected in the grid emissions

Marginal software carbon intensity?
Fixed capacity of solar, that is the total amount you have, but if you run additional code there is no more solar to serve that, must be drawn from grid. Impossible to track.

Dan will reach out to David Mytton to see if he can join the conversation

2. [Milestones for SCI v1](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/212)

Sarah - Something that I have been thinking of that could be interesting is to try and find only the software boundary and the R of a wide selection of different types of software.
I think that; 1) it can be easier to get access too (thinking of NDAs and anti-trust policies and general need for confidentiality of some companies) and 2) it can give us an idea of potential flaws and 3) give us a longer list (perhaps as an appendix) of software boundary and R for v1 of the specification.

Case study potentials:
-Microsoft (Will) green AI training, writing up outline
-Shell (Adam) strong interest
-Goldman Sachs (Sarah)? -infrastructure
-Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study

Baselining:
-as the SCI evolves, in the interest of transparency, nice to have a back test to see how case studies would change
-changes, made improvements, baseline SCI not applications, see how score changes.
-Implement at first major specification update?

**PRs**

1. [Implement proposed reporting requirements from discussion 103 #123](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/123)

> Working group approved, create document to begin iterating on as a starting point.

### Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

> Henry leads the discussion

**Issues**

1. [What are the requirements in how people report the SCI? #156](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/156)

> Issue closed - See PR#123

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 16th December @1630 (GMT) 

> WG agreed to resume the WG meeting on the 06th Jan 2022

## Any Other Business

WG reviewed Issue [#213](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/213)

> The working group appreciates this comment and is reviewing in detail! On the agenda for next week (12/16).

## Adjournment

Sara motions to adjourn the meeting - No objections - Meeting closed

