## 2021.10.21 Agenda
Time 1630 PM (BST)

- Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT <br>
Abhishek Gupta - MSFT <br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade <br>
Lopez Dominguez - Globant <br>
Henry Richardsong - WT <br>
Matthew Kotsenas - MSFT <br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture <br>
Rakesh Varma Siri - Accenture <br>
Sara Bergaman - MSFT <br>
Sarah Hsu - GS <br>
Siu Chan - GS <br>
Srinivasan Rakhunathan - MSFT <br>
William Buchanan - MSFT <br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>
Daniel Schien - BU<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2021.10.21 Agenda
> Sean reviews the Agenda - Chris motioins to agreed the agenda - no objections - agenda agreed
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.10.14_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/seanmcilroy29-patch-1/Agenda_Minutes/2021.10.14_Minutes_draft.md)
> Lopez motions to agree the minutes - no objections - minutes agreed 


### This weeks activities
> Abhishek to lead

Abhishek / Asim lead a discussion to review the SCI timelines. To maximise the impact of the SCI, it was proposed to move the Consistency review from 28 to 04th
 > WG agreed to shift the Consistency review from 28 --> 04th
 
### SCI Appliced

Asim starts the discussion by presenting a presentation on how the SCI will be applied - What, Scale, How, Measure, Report

- What - The first step in applying the SCI is to define a software boundary, decide on where your application starts and stops, it’s edges
- How does my app scale - The second step is to decide what your baseline, the R, is. Is it per User, is it per FLOP? That’s needs to be documented and it has to be the common unit of measurement for all the component parts of your application.
- How - Third step - SCI = ((E+I)+M) per one user.

Henry highlighted the time shift and regional shift impact on the SCI results. Henry also highlighted the possible need to add a key incentivise message needs to be added to the introduction. Saving is what we want to reduce carbon emissions. Daniel highlighted some personal concerns about the need to tighten up the language. Consequential vs attributional was discussed and how the SCI should be applied. In the SCI it was highlighted the standard doesn't highlight the consequential aspect. Daniel suggested that the Standard should be tested before being pushed out for public use. Henry discussed the calculation of 'C' (See additional info [here](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/122). Daniel requested for the specific about the terms measurement / Calculating. Measurement creates data with low uncertainty, whereas calculations is using an approached based on a model. Abhishek, requested for Daniel to forward a reference that could be used to make the distinction between - Measurement & Calculation.
 

> Abhishek to email Daniel about the agreed upon ways of working

### Applying the SCI to a multip component use case
> Asim to lead

### Review Submitted SCI PRs - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls
> Abhishek to lead

**PRs** 

The WG discuss the SCI 

1. (Changes needed) Implement proposed reporting requirements from discussion 103 - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/123

2. (Ready to go) Notify mailing list based on new RNA issues, and invite users to contribute to citation.CFF file - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/98

3. (Formatting and revisions required) Appendix A : Guidelines on how to define a SRE metric based on Software Carbon Intensity.md - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/110

4. (Ready to go) Delete Boundaries Section at End - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/118

5. (Ready to go) Tiny grammar fix - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/119

6. (Ready to go) Updated executive summary - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/121
[clean version reviewed](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/blob/dae26d17ebed84ef291e19340d45aa9a4cb70cdb/Software_Carbon_Intensity/Software_Carbon_Intensity_Specification.md)

WG reviews the PR. Online editorial applied
- Henry raised some concerns about the changes to the SCI i.e divide by R.

> WG Agreed to hold an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday @1600 BST

7. (Ready to go) Clarifying impact - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/126

8. (Minor changes needed) Added Baselines - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/127

### Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Deferred)
> Abhishek to lead

**Issues** **(Deferred)**

1. Readability: Intro & Executive Summary - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/116
2. Baseline, acceptable R - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/117
3. Definition related issues (#128, #131, #137, #140, #142)
4. SCI phrasing improvements (#130, #132, #136, #141, #143, #144, #147, #148, #149, #152, #153, #154) 

**Discussions** **Deferred**

[Tagged High Discussion](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions?discussions_q=label%3Ahigh)

### Motion to begin the Consistency Review  **Deferred**
> Abhishek to initiate

## WG Meeting Schedule

> Abhishek to confirm

- Next meeting 28 Oct @1630 (BST) 

## Any Other Business

## Adjournment
