# 2021.07.08 Minutes
Time 1700 PM (BST)

- Chair – Asim Hussain (MSFT)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call
Abhishek Gupta - MSFT
Sara Bergman - MSFT
Neville Dubash - Accenture
Henry Richards - WhattTime
Sean Mcilroy - LF
Asim Hussain - MSFT

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
Sean Mcilroy reviews the agenda.  Asim Hussain moves to adopt the agenda.  All are in favour.  The agenda is agreed.
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
N/A
 
## Member Introduction Icebreaker
Asim Hussain
- Each meeting member offered an introduction of themself.

## Define a high-level Working Group Scope (Discussion)
Asim Hussain
Asim begins the discussion by reviewing the GitHub GSF templates repo and provided an overview on how to incorporate them into the Spec development process.
- PR - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/1 is reviewed by the WG.
>WG agrees to merge the PR#001

## Proposed Deliverables (Discussion)
Asim Hussain
Reviewed the Software Carbon Intensity - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/1/files document.
Asim provided a breakdown of the Spec headers and requested for the WG members to submit contributions via a PR, which will be reviewed by the WG member.
It was noted that only the WG Chair & VC can merge any PR's into the baseline document.

Asim lead a discussion to review the criteria for making an application Carbon Aware, Energy Efficient or Hardware Efficient should reduce the value of C.
Henry recommended to consider the attributional versus consequential concept/thinking which led to a further discussion about hydro energy. 
In support of this, Abhishek suggested to also include desired characteristics that we would want the measure i.e. elasticity / sensitivity of the measure? 
Abhishek additionally recommended the characteristics would be non-gameability to avoid the problems of Goodhart’s Law or at least low vulnerability of the measure to gameability.

Asim indicated that the WGs aim is to provide information for this measure - 'C' - so people know what they can do to reduce carbon

Henry proposed the using 80/20 rule.

Asim requested for members to submit an issue for members to comment on attributional versus consequential

## WG Meeting Schedule
Asim Hussain
- Proposed to hold the meeting Thur 15th July @ 1530
- WG Agree

## General Working Group logistics (Not discussed)
Sean Mcilroy
- Discussion of tools for document storage, calendars, mailing lists
- Rules of engagement
- Getting WGs productive and engaged.

## Any Other Business
Nothing added

## Adjournment
Asim Hussain moves to adjourn.  All are in favour.  Meeting is closed

Closes 1801 (BST)
