## 2022.09.08 Minutes

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (BCG)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call

Henry Richardson - WattTime
gadhu.sundaram@nttdata.com
Sean Mcilroy - LF
Sara Bergman - MSFT
Ben Logan - UBS
Asim Hussain - Intel
Navveen Balani - Accenture
Katarina Reyes
Chris Xie - Futurewei
Tammy McClellan - MSFT
Moinak Banerjee
Srinivasan Rakhunathan - MSFT
Abhishek Gupta - BCG

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

**[Meeting recording/transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WeRybJv8a8vunyRe9AawSqP0feVfe2PJ0KKiAGkI7kQ/edit)**
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.09.08 Agenda

> Sean review the Agenda - Asim motions to approve - no objections - Agenda approved

## Minutes Approval (decision) 

[2022.09.01_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.09.01.Minutes.md)

> Asim motions to approve - no objections - Minutes approved

## SCI Review

Note: The WG has agreed to send the SCI for V1.0 approval by 08th Sept, at the end of the call the WG to decide if this should be Approved as v1.0?

[SCI PR's](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls)

> WG to review and agree PR's

- [x] #296 - WG reviewed, agreed & merged PR
- [x] #297 - WG reviewed, agreed & merged PR
- [x] #298 - WG reviewed, agreed & merged PR
- [x] #299 - WG reviewed, agreed & merged PR
- [x] #300 - WG reviewed, agreed & merged PR
- [x] #303 - WG reviewed, agreed & merged PR

[SCI Submitted issues](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues)

WG Agreed to submit v1.0 SCI into a consistency review
**AI: Sean to start the consistency review**

### [Discussions for review](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions) [Deferred]

- [ ] [Methodology](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/301)

## [WG Webpage](https://standards.greensoftware.foundation) development [Deferred]

- [ ] [Creation of supporting pages for docusaurus](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/294)
- [ ] Defining the language of what is a 'case study'
- [ ] Wiki and FAQ submissions

WG to discuss this at the next WG meeting

## Case study updates

> Are the following Use cases still valid, should they be removed?

- [x] Accenture (Navveen) --> Update expected Mid to late Sept

- [x] Gadhu NTT --> Update expected Mid Sept

- [ ] Henry - University of Washington 

- [x] Pindy - UBS --> Update expected Mid Sept

- [x] Wendy - AVEVA --> Update expected Mid Sept

- [ ] Tammy - MSFT/Dow - Working on ML based case study

## WG Meeting Schedule

- [ ]  Next meeting 15th Sept

> Agreed

## Any Other Business [Deferred]

[New Agenda / Minutes format](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/training/issues/55)

## Adjournment

> Asim motions to adjourn - no objections - meeting closed
