## 2022.08.18 Agenda

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (BCG)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Henry Richardson (WattTime)<br>
Ranganath P<br>
Daniel Schien - BU<br>
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
gadhu sundaram - NTT Data<br>
Srini - MSFT<br>
Adam Jordan - Shell<br>
Marco Dalicco - NTTDATA<br>
Akshit Batra - Accenture<br>
padmini jyotishmati - UBS<br>
Daniel Lazaro (AVEVA)<br>
Asim Hussain - Intel<br>
Pindy Bhullar - UBS<br>
Chris Xie - Futurewei<br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## [Meeting recording](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WeRybJv8a8vunyRe9AawSqP0feVfe2PJ0KKiAGkI7kQ/edit?usp=sharing)

## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.08.18 Agenda
Sean reviews the agenda - no objections - Agenda approved

## Minutes Approval (decision) 

[2022.08.11_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.08.11.Minutes.md)

Asim motions to approve the minutes - no objections - Minutes approved

## Casestudy Review

Proposed use case presentation - Will Buchanan (MSFT)

> Not available

## SCI Review

> **Reminder - The WG has agreed to send the SCI for V1.0 approval by 08th Sept.

[SCI PR's](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls)

#265 - Agreed and merged<br>
#279 - Agreed and merged<br>
#285 - Agreed and merged<br>

#256 - AI: Henry to update PR<br>

#286 - WG approved text:<br>
"Functional Unit Conversion
An aggregate SCI score can be composed of multiple component SCI scores.
Then as long as the Functional Unit of R is the same across all the component SCI scores, you can sum them up to calculate the aggregate SCI.To sum multiple component SCI scores into one aggregate score, the Functional Unit R MUST be the same across all components.
If the Functional Unit of a software component is not the same as the aggregate Functional Unit, then the component SCI score needs to be converted to match that of the aggregate SCI Functional Unit. You MUST disclose details of any unit conversion factors used in calculating your SCI score."

#283 - Working group has agreed that the reporting requirements should be removed from Appendix A (and moved to other repo focused on reporting), now appendix A will be used inside the document at the bottom to record versioning.
[SCI Submitted issues](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues)

#262 - WG Agreed to close - PR closed

#272 - WG Agreed to close - PR closed

#284 - WG: we don't have enough data to do this yet? Could be part of guidance document (wiki).

WG agreed on the following;

19-25 Sept --> WG member to editorially review the Spec<br>
25-01 Sept --> GSF technical writer will review the spec<br>
01 Sept - WG will approve the Spec for consistency <br>
01-08 Sept - Spec consistency review<br>
08 Sept - WG review and resolve submitted comments PRs - WG Approve the specification<br>
15 Sept -  Spec submitted for SC ratification<br>

> AI: Sean to prepare the Spec review

### Discussions for review 

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

> No discussions submitted
 
## Project Updates [Deferred]
    
- [ ] Ziliang (TU) [Evaluating the Software Carbon Intensity of Foundation Models update](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/eval_sci_of_foundation_models)
 - Github repo - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/eval_sci_of_foundation_models

[Review submissions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/eval_sci_of_foundation_models/issues)

> WG discuss review submissions
> Next steps for the report release?

## Case study updates [Deferred]

> Are the following Use cases still valid, should they be removed?

- [ ] Goldman Sachs (Sarah) - infrastructure?

- [ ] Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study 

- [ ]  Gadhu NTT - In progress.

- [ ]  Henry - University of Washington - language comparison for same task 

## WG Meeting Schedule

- [ ]  Next meeting 25th Aug

> Agreed

## Any Other Business

> Nothing added

## Adjournment

Asim motions to adjourn - No objections - Meeting closed
