## 2022.02.03 Minutes

Time 1630 PM (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

[Meeting link](https://zoom.us/j/97813672712?pwd=MkRpUzczUmQ5QVFQb3pheEpDa05tUT09)

[Meeting recording](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1O9vgxsMU7HQHAO2qHU-Suiy1g4EVw-wD?usp=sharing) - Note to be deleted 10 Feb 2022

## Roll call

Ziliang Zong - TU <br>
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Adam Jordan - Shell<br>
Abhishek Gupta - MSFT<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade<br>
Henry Richardson - TW<br>
Natalie Hollier - MSFT<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Stefano Papa - Intesasanpalolo<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>

> Quorum attained
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.02.03 Agenda

> Sean reviews the Agenda - Chris motions to Approve the Agenda - No objections - Agenda Approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2022.01.27_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.01.27_minutes.md)

> Chris motions to Approve the Minutes - No objections - Minutes Approved

## Project Submission

[SCI to Foundation AI Models](c) 

> Dr. Ziliang Zong – Texas State University

Ziliang begins the discussion by reviewing the SCI to Foundation AI Model - 
Scope - Foundation models (e.g. BERT and BET-3) refer to large scale AI models that are trained on massive amount of data and can be adapted to a wide range of tasks (e.g. language, vision, human interaction etc.). Although foundation models are very powerful, they are extremely resource hungry with significant carbon emissions because of their scale. This project aims to create a comprehensive case study on evaluating the impact of foundation AI models on environment by applying the Software Carbon Intensity (SCI) specification. 

Abhishek - Dropped in a link to discuss if there is something that we can do in partnership with these folks (http://ai-carbon-efficiency-observatory.ai-for-sdgs.academy/) in relation to this project proposal. Abhishek also indicated that he's happy to provide guidance on choosing AI domains along with their output evaluations as well. Here is the paper: https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.07258. Adam requested how can other members participate in this study - Ziliang outlined how GSF members can collaborate.

Srini - For the GSF to be able to correlate the results of this study with other software, would it be possible for the proposal to provide a brief on a real world case where we can apply the results ? For example, would the "proposed" models be used in a language recognition problem, sentiment analytics problem etc.  We had another case study submission where the model was trying to solve a image classification problem - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/216. Ziliang agree, and will look at this.

> WG agreed to submit this for review. Submitted comments will be reviewed and resolved prior to a motion to approve the project.
> Action Item - Sean to set up a review of this project.
 
## SCI-Reporting project update

[SCI-Reporting project](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-reporting)

Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade

Chris provides feedback on the progress of the SCI-Reporting project and makes a request for members to volunteer. 

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

> WG Chair to lead

### Discussions for review

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

1. [Case study proposal - Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb #225](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/225)

Srini started the discussion by reviewing the Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb test case. 


2. [SCI should be dimensionless and abstract #230](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/230)- [Deferred]

**Case study update/potentials:** [Deferred]

- Shell (Adam) strong interest
- Goldman Sachs (Sarah) -infrastructure
- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study

> Request for other case study submissions

## WG Meeting Schedule

> Next meeting 10th February @1630 (GMT) - Agreed

## Any Other Business

> No business added

## Adjournment

> Chris motions to Adjourn - no objections - meeting closed @ 1731
