## 2022.04.21 Minutes

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (BCG)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Srini Rakhunathan - MSFT <br>
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Elmar Borgmeir - Syngenio<br>
Abhisek Gupta - BCG<br>
Adam Jordan - Shell<br>
Akshit Batra - TW<br>
Henry Richards - WT<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Nick Walker - Avanade<br>
Soren Jones - NTTData<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>
Gadhu Sundaram - NTTData<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.04.21 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Elmar motions to approve the agenda - No objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes

[2022.04.07_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.04.07_Minutes.md) 

> Tammy motions to approve the mintues - No objections - Minutes approved

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

1. [Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/227)

> Srini offers an update on the eShoponWeb test case.

Srini - I have put in for review and the actual pull request is here. So we will be able to see the difference between what has been updated versus what was there before. But essentially I wanted to kind of bring attention back to this architecture of how this simple simplistic web application architecture for which we are calculating this carbon emissions and one of the things that we want I wonder feedback on was what is there in as part of the exclusion list. Now as part of the inclusion, we have the app server and the database server, but then the first point in the exclusion list is the actual client device. It could be a laptop, it could be a mobile device. It could be any one of these things and from from a load test perspective, how we have modelled it is we modelled as a 50 users or 500 users, you know that the user base come in and hit the API application, which is basically send a request to the web application and then going back to the database, but how do we model the carbon emissions of the client device or devices and essentially, it boils down to a couple of things that I had put in the skin. It should be dead here. 

Elmar - In general, it obviously is way more difficult to correctly measure multiclient applications over the different system. That is also why when you look at academic papers all have mostly they measure just things running on one computer which is way easier to measure. There are tools of course for measuring CPU load, or even on on a single machine, like likely the whatever you're using for front end, performance testing. 

Srini - I think if we narrow it down to a single laptop, then it is kind of we can use the same formula that we used on an app server we should be able to when the application is running on my browser. If I browse, then I can, you know, calculate the CPU GPU and memory from my machine and then use the same formula which we have with ACI. But then within I'm just wondering what would be a good approach on this because obviously, when we want to, we had this discussion earlier. I think in the earlier part of the standards about measuring it in attributional way versus consequential. So I was just wondering, too, I just want to to understand if you go with the approach of a single machine, we can kind of approximate, you know, what's the carbon emissions

Henry - I assume you don't know what devices your your software is running on? Correct. I thought we would have a distribution of what types of devices mobile or laptop or desktop that your your software is running on. If that was possible, and then a distribution of the energy consumption for computation for those same devices. And then you would just do a simple multiplication. But that's if we have to simplify that to a single representative device, and a single representative. Patient and electricity consumption I think that's what we have to do. But like, you could see, you could do single device, single electricity consumption, you could break that out by types of devices. And as some kind of distribution, you could then either break out the electricity consumption into some kind of distribution. That's the ideal. I have no idea that's even available.

Gadhu - I think that we need to have that in the model. Sometimes you might have better information, for example, if it's globally if the users are spread worldwide, and I have at least like a sort of approximation of 30% of my users from the US 20% from the UK, then you might you might put more realistic numbers, for example, right, like you know, sort of even the energy intensity might change. For if there are I can imagine that if there are let's say, 100 users in the US using this application for, you know, 60 hours per week for a year. So that's a considerable amount of energy for for your application, so that that should that should come in submit, but I think that they can also it should be part of the measurement, but I don't think you have control over that. Right. So So I think it should just be it should be modelled and captured but not the minimum that we need to do to model it and read like it and sort of capture it, but I think because otherwise I'd like you know, sort of not measured anywhere else right? And that is if you if you take it to the logical end of the greenest app is that you did not write. So just because like me, you've got this ecommerce application that people are using it and there are like in a sort of huge numbers of people using it, it should be captured as my opinion. I don't know if and for now that like any use modelling rather than any measurement, but whatever it like it is reasonable. Either reasonable assumptions. If it's if it's an app that's meant to be used only within a particular country then read like most of it, and then you could just have some you know, Representative distribution of users and laptop bottles and things like that. Based on your based on a measurement that you come up on a single laptop. If it's used globally, then you're probably lucky it might make sense to use whatever information you have. Is that reasonable? What do people feel?

Elmar - I guess it depends on what you want to use the FBI for. If it's actually about having a baseline and then trying to improve within your team, then it's probably just okay to have a definition of the baseline. So have some kind of model whether it's realistic or not to set some kind of model and stick with that model as long as it seems realistic. And you compare against that. I mean, what is interesting is like, if I move from pure HTML to react or to Angular, does that improve or not improve? And actually, that's not going to be different? How many users you have in India or wherever. So I think for many practical things, like optimising the front end, sometimes may it's okay if it's Windows or Mac OS or Linux, but in many cases, I think if he was standard setups that you measure, covering the central path.

Henry - That makes sense with if you're, if for some reason, you make the purchasing experience seamless and someone goes through it three seconds, instead of three minutes, you've achieved some emission savings, and as long as you hold it constant, you also probably make more money that maybe I was also thinking about the type of software if you have like a mobile app game versus like heavy CAD software, like, you know, all your users for the CAD software going to be desktops and we'll have a different energy use profile than everyone using like Wordle or whatever the current game hip hop is, right? So like, I feel like you can like Target it like, is this a mobile app and you should use exclusively the mobile energy consumption. I feel like this is an important discussion. Should we put this somewhere in the spec or should this be in like a use guide or something?

3. [Farm Insights - Raspberry Pi #241](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/241) - **_any updates?_**

> No updates

### Discussions for review

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

1. [SCI Feedback from greeNsort #248](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/248)
[Link to full submission](https://greensort.eu/GSF_SCI.html)

> WG agreed to invite the submitter of this discussion to the next meeeting

**Case study updates:**

- Shell (Adam) strong interest
- Goldman Sachs (Sarah) -infrastructure
- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study (still a bit out) 
- NTT (Gadhu) - start mid april, likely. Three or four customers interested. One confirmed. Internal applications as well. 
- Avanade (Chris) - two interested parties, waiting for approval to share names
- Avanade (Chris) - website improvements, more real, starting on the website evaluation now (3/24)
- University of Washington - language comparison for same task (abhishek)
- Texas State (Ziliang) - Inference model use
- Microsoft/Dow (chemical) (Tammy) - working on ML based case study
- WTF (wonderful tiny farm) - Tammy, draft completed: 

> No case study updates

## Project Updates

- SCI Reporting
> No SCI report updates

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 21st Apr @1630 (GMT) 

> Agreed

## GSF Global Summit

- https://summit.greensoftware.foundation/

> Tammy offered an overview of the upcoming GSF summit

## Any Other Business

Sean asked the WG if the SCI v1.0 would be ready by COP27

## Adjournment

> Navveen motions to adjourn - no objections - Meeting adjourned
