## 2022.03.03 Minutes

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call

Sean Mcilroy - <br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT<br>
Abhishek Gupta - MSFT<br>
Anand Ram - VMware<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade<br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW<br>
Elmar Borgmeier - Syngenio<br>
Gadhu Sundaram - NTTData<br>
Natalie Hollier - MSFT<br>
Vinal Bagaria - VMWare<br>
Henry Richardson - WattTime<br>
Yuji Kobayashi - NTTData<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.03.03 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Chris motions to approve to agenda - no objections - Agenda agreed
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2022.02.24_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.02.24_Minutes.md)

> Gadhu motions to approve the minutes - no objections - Minutes approved

## Standards WG 2022 Objects & Milestones (Discussion)

- SCI Spec v1.0 approved by the WG by Aug, ready for COP 27 (7-18 November 2022)
- Supportive SCI case studies completed and published with the Approved SCI v1.0  

Henry starts the discussion by outlining the need for case studies submissions to be conclued.
Asim indicates his hope for the SCI v1.0 to be approved prior to the COP27 convene.

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

1. [Case study proposal - Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb #225](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/225)

> Comments submitted against issue [Case study proposal - Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb #227](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/227)

2. [Provide Exemplary Case Studies #196](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/196)

WG discussed how a case study (CS) should be submitted for review. It was collectively agreed that Asim would submit a CS template PR for the WG to reveiw at the next meeting.
Chris suggest using GitBook as part of the case study submissions

> Action Item - Asim to create a case study submission template 
> Action Item - Chris to demo GitBook at the next meeting, to see how this could be integrated Case Study submissions 

### Discussions for review

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

1. [Your SCI score is composed of other SCI scores](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/235)

Asim starts the converstation by reviewing and discussing the 'Your SCI Score'. Chris suggested in future, we might need to recommend R units for different services - I can see otherwise it might make it difficult to compare different reported scores

WG highlighted the following points

- Do functional units scale the same for all services? -HDR
- Might get a managed database score in functional units of GB
- Need to translate that into the functional unit you are using
- Can aggregate scores into your score.
- Common lifecycle scoring approach - Elmar
- Every LCA tends to do this
- Show this works for SCI as well
- Can leverage other scores for higher
- SDIA - digital infrastructure alliance
- Project to make lower level services to make API to share energy consumption
- report electricity consumption upward (i.e. to kubernetes)
- Virtual machine above container above hardware. Aggregate upwards
- Project is in infancy, needs cooperation from different providers.
-  Future versions of SCI will must report specific functional units. Otherwise not comparable.
-  Specific 'ontology' for specific applications.
- If application use specific resources, must include certain things.
- People dropping parts of the SCI score
- Tooling may help improve

**Case study updates:** [Deferred to next meeting]

- Shell (Adam) strong interest
- Goldman Sachs (Sarah) -infrastructure
- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study, 
- NTT (Gadhu) - talking to customers for partnership
- Vodafone (Asim) - might be interested
- Avanade (Chris) - two interested parties, waiting for approval to share names
- Avanade (Chris) - website improvements, more real
- University of Washington - language comparison for same task
- Microsoft/Dow (Tammy) - working on ML based case study

> Request for other case study submissions

## Project Updates

### SCI Reporting [Deferred to next meeting]

> Chris Lloyd-Jones
- [GitHub](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-reporting)
- [Website](https://greensoftware.foundation/projects/sci-reporting) 

## WG Election notifiction [Deferred to next meeting]

- The Green Software Foundation will be accepting Chair nominations for the Standards Working Group Chairs from 07th March.
- Sponsor and General Members are permitted to be candidates for chair positions.

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 10th March @1630 (GMT) 

> Agreed

## Any Other Business

> Nothing added

## Adjournment

Navveen motions to adjourn the meeting - No objections - Meeting adjourned @ 1730
