## 2022.07.14 Agenda

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (BCG)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call

Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Henry Richardson - WT<br>
Kevin Li - VMware<br>
Marco Valtas - Thoughtworks<br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Yuji Kobayashi - Shell<br>
Ben Logan - UBS<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>
Pindy Bhullar - UBS<br>

[Meeting recording](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WeRybJv8a8vunyRe9AawSqP0feVfe2PJ0KKiAGkI7kQ/edit)


## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.07.14 Agenda

Sean reviews the Agenda - Navveen motions to approve - No objections - Agenda approved

## Minutes Approval (decision) 

[2022.07.07_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.07.07.Minutes.md)

Navveen motions to the minutes - No objections - Minutes approved


**Henry motions to start with the AOB - No objectsion - Meeting starts with AOB**

 - SCI V1.0<br>
 - COP27

## SCI V1.0 

WG discuss the need to support the SCI with a number of Use Cases and the need for members to review the Spec prior to a consistency review.

Henry - The key discussion points for the SCI V1.0 before sending it for approval, is for the WG to spend the next 2 weeks reviewing and submitting issues / PRs.
Sean - Outlines the steps for the Spec to be approved 1. WG review 2. Consistency review by all GSF members 3. SC ratification


AI: WG to review and submit issues against the proposed SCI v1.0 for the next 2 weeks <br>
AI: Sean to notify the members unable to join the meeting, of the review

## COP27

Asim - One of the things that we're announcing for COP27, is a training is a certification green software. For those of you don't know the principles of green software, It's the principles of green software v2.0, with an examiner certification, and we're now thinking of what would a certification for measurement look like. We definitely don't have the resources in the foundation, no matter how much we scale we can't do another certification by COP27. If someone wants to be certified on the SCI, they'll be able to answer question like how do I calculate the energy?  How do they plug those numbers into an SCI calculation? What are some of the considerations? How do they submit that into something like the STI reporting tool that we have? We're thinking that might be a good next step to aim for for next year.
Navveen - For COP27 I think we should come up with some reference application. Asim agreed. Naveen added we could demonstrate all these SCI features. How do you get the data reporting, So it becomes a good use case for us.

## SCI PR's / Issues [Deferred]

- [ ] [Question re: location-based marginal emissions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/259)

## Open Issues and Discussions (Discussion)[Deferred]

- [ ]  [Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/227) - **Srini to lead**
    > **PR for review** - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/256

### Discussions for review[Deferred]

> [Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

- [ ]  [Using SCI to measure purchased software #252](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/253?converting=1)
 
## Project Updates[Deferred]

- [ ]  CLJ (Avenade)- [SCI Reporting](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-reporting) - 
    - GitHub repo - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-reporting
    
- [ ] Ziliang (TU) [Evaluating the Software Carbon Intensity of Foundation Models update](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/eval_sci_of_foundation_models)
    - Google doc https://docs.google.com/document/d/16bcRAyN9ZxVKNf1GkaIbDJXnxvIo7Goe/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs
    - Github repo - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/eval_sci_of_foundation_models

**Case study updates:**[Deferred]

Are the following Use cases still valid, should they be removed?

- [ ] Shell (Adam) 

- [ ] Goldman Sachs (Sarah) - infrastructure

- [ ] Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study 

- [ ]  Gadhu NTT 

- [ ]  CLJ Avanade - two interested parties, waiting for approval to share names

- [ ]  CLJ Avanade - website improvements, more real, starting on the website evaluation now (3/24)

- [ ]  Henry - University of Washington - language comparison for same task 

- [ ] Tammy Microsoft/Dow (chemical) (Tammy) - working on ML based case study

## WG Meeting Schedule

- [ ]  Next meeting 21st July

Agreed

## Any Other Business

SCI V1.0<br>
COP27

## Adjournment

Navveen motions to adjourn - no objections - meeting adjourned
