## 2022.01.06 Minutes
Time 1630 PM (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade<br>
Henry Richards - WT<br>
Alyssa Cooper - MSFT<br>
Gadhu Sundaram - NTT Data<br>
Srinivasan Rakhunathan - MSFT<br>
Sara Bergman - MSFT<br>
 
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.01.06 Agenda

> Sean review the Agenda - Sara motions to Approve - No objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.12.09_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2021.12.09_minutes.md)

> Minutes to be approved at the next meeting

### Review Submitted SCI PRs

**PRs**

1. [Update Software_Carbon_Intensity_Specification.md](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/215)

> R&A completed with no comments - to be merged

> WG review changes and agree to merge

2. [Market instruments and grid interconnected infrastructure discussion](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/218)

> WG review changes and agree to merge

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

> Henry to lead

**Issues for Review**

[Issues](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues)

1. [Replace life span with use duration in Embodied Emissions formula #213](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/213)

Henry starts the discussion by reviewing the submitted comments. The Working Group notes that the currently UR (utilization ratio) is hard (nigh on impossible) to extract from providers. Would like to revisit this in future version of the specification.

> WG Agree to move this Issue into discussions

2. [Test case submission: GreenAI](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/216) (Deferred to next meeting)

3. [How to calculate the Energy value in the SCI formula (E)](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/217) (Deferred to next meeting)

### Discussions for review

[Discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

1. [Explanation of the carbon reduction goal in context of excluding infrastructure #207](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/207)

> Henry - Discussion with a view to creating a PR

2. [Milestones for SCI v1](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/212) (Deferred to next meeting)

**Case study potentials:**
- Microsoft (Will) green AI training, writing up outline
- Shell (Adam) strong interest
- Goldman Sachs (Sarah) -infrastructure
- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study

Action Item - Will to create an issue using the new Case study temple, using this presentation as a basis.

3. [Reporting project- SCI](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/125)

> Chris Lloyd-Jones

Chris starts the discussion by reviewing the discussion 'Reporting Project - SCI' submitted comments. 
The WG agree that this is a great project proposal and should move to the next step - project proposal submission

There’s probably crossover with the carbon-aware SDK too
- Reporting structure
- system
- Infrastructure

> Action Item - Sean to forward Project submission template <br>
> Action Item - Chris to complete project submission form to including funding & estimation, <br>
> Action Item - Chris to submit a project proposal for 'Reporting SCI'. At the next meeting this well be submitted for review <br>

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 13th January @1630 (GMT) 

## Any Other Business

> No business added

## Adjournment

> Gadhu motions to adjourn - no objections - meeting closed @ 1735
