## 2022.07.07 Agenda

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (BCG)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Adam jordon - Shell<br>
Florent Morel - ISP<br>
Marco Valtas - Thoughtworks<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Nick Walker - Avanade<br>
Srini Rakhunathan - MSFT<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>
Vasu Arnepalli - VMware<br>
Abhishek Gupts - BGC<br>
Pindy Bhullar - UBS<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
[Meeting recording](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WeRybJv8a8vunyRe9AawSqP0feVfe2PJ0KKiAGkI7kQ/edit)

## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.07.07 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Tammy motions to approve - No objections - Agenda approved

## Minutes Approval (decision) 

[2022.06.30_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/edit/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.06.30_Minutes.md)

> Tammy motions to approve - No objections - minutes approved

## SCI PR's / Issues

- [ ] [Question re: location-based marginal emissions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/258)

Abhishek leads a discuss on the submitted Questions - 

Questions:

- What's the difference between a "marked-based measure" and "location-based measures"?
- To calculate the SCI, only the carbon emissions in the electricy net where the server is operated is relevant (i.e. 29g in Sweden when writing this issue according to https://app.electricitymap.org/zone/SE)?
- Now when Microsoft claims to operate a 100% renewable energy datacenter (https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/blog/achieving-100-percent-renewable-energy-with-247-monitoring-in-microsoft-sweden/) - is this a "marked-based measure" or can the factor 0 be used for the location-based marginal carbon emissions?

Florent added - Market-based measures are financial instruments designed to neutralize, offset carbon emissions. Market-based measures include, but is not limited to the following:

    Carbon Offsets or Credits
    A Removal Unit (RMU)
    An Emission Reduction Unit (ERU)
    A Certified Emission Reduction (CER)
    Electricity Attribute Certificates (EACs)
    Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs)
    Renewable Energy Credits (RECs)
    
- Marco - Which brings the point that you could zero emission (as stated) through market-based. I think SCI shouldn't be able to zero it, so it keeps a valid data point to optimiza against. 
- Navveen - Location based -  average emissions intensity of grids Market based - take into account abt purchases,certificates etc
- Marco - If we the main goal is to promote behavior change, using market-based could lead to indirect change to SCI. Meaning, your SCI would change depending on how the data center establish it's neutralization. Like Adam said, it will be hard to track these.

Summary - 

- Adam: lot of contextual measures in the SCI, so not sure yet on how to incorporate this / if it should be incorporated
- Srini: MBM includes neutralizations and offsets,
- Adam: we don't want to give specific guidance because that is going to be contextual
- Henry: the intent to exclude market-based measures was also that we want to be consequential and make sure that we focus on things that the developer can control / if you change your software, would it reduce the carbon?
- Tammy: if you run your app on the DC that is buying renewable energy / market-based

Henry - As the SCI is currently drafted, market based measures like EACs, RECs, offsets, PPAs, etc are excluded from the calculation. The specification attempts to assess the emissions caused by running that software, making the marginal emissions rate in that region relevant. SCI promotes creating energy efficient applications, targeted for practitioners, hence market-based strategies are excluded at this point. In the Microsoft example, you should use the regional emissions factor, not zero.


## Open Issues and Discussions (Discussion) [Deferred]

- [ ]  [Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/227) - **Srini to lead**
    > **PR for review** - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/256

### Discussions for review [Deferred]

> [Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

- [ ]  [Using SCI to measure purchased software #252](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/253?converting=1)
 
## Project Updates [Deferred]

- [ ]  CLJ (Avenade)- [SCI Reporting](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-reporting) - 
    - GitHub repo - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-reporting
    
- [ ] Ziliang (TU) [Evaluating the Software Carbon Intensity of Foundation Models update](https://github.com/Green-Software Foundation/eval_sci_of_foundation_models)
    - Google doc https://docs.google.com/document/d/16bcRAyN9ZxVKNf1GkaIbDJXnxvIo7Goe/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs
    - Github repo - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/eval_sci_of_foundation_models

**Case study updates:** [Deferred]

Are the following Use cases still valid, should they be removed?

- [ ] Shell (Adam) 
- [ ] Goldman Sachs (Sarah) - infrastructure
- [ ] Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study 
- [ ] Gadhu NTT 
- [ ] CLJ Avanade - two interested parties, waiting for approval to share names
- [ ] CLJ Avanade - website improvements, more real, starting on the website evaluation now (3/24)
- [ ] Henry - University of Washington - language comparison for same task
- [ ] Tammy Microsoft/Dow (chemical) (Tammy) - working on ML based case study

## WG Meeting Schedule

- [ ]  Next meeting 14th July
> Agreed

## Any Other Business

Release date for v1.0 --> Proposed release date Sept?
>Agreed by the WG to have v1.o ready for release by Sept

## Adjournment

Tammy motions to adjourn - No objections - Meeting closed
