## 2022.09.01 Minutes

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (BCG)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

**[Meeting recording/transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WeRybJv8a8vunyRe9AawSqP0feVfe2PJ0KKiAGkI7kQ/edit)**

## Roll call

Henry Richards - WT <br>
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
gadhu sundaram - NTT Data<br>
Katarina Reyes - NTT Data<br>
Wenting Zhu - Aveva<br>
Asim Hussain - Intel<br>
Navveen Balani Accenture<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>
Daniel Lazaro - AVEVA<br>
Chris Xie - Futurewei<br>
Ben Logan - UBS<br>
Chris Xie - Futurewei<br>
Chandrika Jain - TW<br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.09.01 Agenda

> Sean reviews the minutes - Asim motions to approve - no objections - agenda approved

## Minutes Approval (decision) 

[2022.08.25_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.08.25.Minutes.md)

Tammy motions to approve - no objections -  approved

## SCI Review

> **Reminder - The WG has agreed to send the SCI for V1.0 approval by 08th Sept.

[SCI PR's](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls)

> WG to review and agree PR's

- [x] #292 - In line edits agreed and Merged

[SCI Submitted issues](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues)

> WG to review issues and decide if a PR should be raised?

#284 - SCI Results

WG discuss the SCI results and how this is equated. 

Henry suggesting useing the EPA greenhouse gas equivalencies calculator - Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator - https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator

WG discuss the option of moving over the SCI Data project from the Opensource WG

- AI: Sean to Move SCI-Data from Opensource WG to the Standards WG - See - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/293
- AI: Asim to submit a PR with the GSF editor observations

### Discussions for review

> [Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

## Case study development

WG discuss to create the following action items;

- [x] Defining the language of what is a 'case study'
- [x] GitHub Wiki and FAQ guidance documents
- [x] New SCI pages
- [x] Onboarding details for new members

## Case study updates

> Are the following Use cases still valid, should they be removed?

- [x] Accenture (Navveen) --> Update expected Mid to late Sept

- [x] Gadhu NTT --> Update expected Mid Sept

- [ ] Henry - University of Washington 

- [x] Pindy - UBS --> Update expected Mid Sept

- [x] Wendy - AVEVA --> Update expected Mid Sept

- [ ] Tammy - DOW

## WG Meeting Schedule

- [x]  Next meeting 08th Sept

## Any Other Business

Asim reviews the new WG pages - https://standards.greensoftware.foundation

> WG agree to adopt these pages

Chris - Requests how to submit a use case - Henry outlines that a submission should be made available to the chairs, and they will put it on the agenda as something to review.

## Adjournment

Asim motions to adjourn - no objections - meeting closed
