## 2022.06.30 Minutes

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (BCG)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

> Recorded meeting - [Available until Jun 30](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WeRybJv8a8vunyRe9AawSqP0feVfe2PJ0KKiAGkI7kQ/edit)

## Roll call

Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Stefano Papa - ISP<br>
Benjamin Ninassi - Accenture<br>
Daniele Carolo Vinci - NTTData<br>
Ennio Cresta - NTTData <br>
Giuseppe Di Giovanna - ISP<br>
Henry Richards - WT<br>
Kevin Li - VMware<br>
Marco Dalicco - NTTData<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Pindy Bhullar - UBS <br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>
Ziliange Zong - UW<br>
Abhishek Gupta - BCG<br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.06.30 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Naveen motions to approve - no objections - Agenda approved

## Minutes Approval (decision) 

[2022.06.23_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/edit/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.06.23_Agenda.md)

> Tammy motions to approve the minutes - no objections - minutes approved

## Member presentation

- [ ]   Static analysis of code in terms of sustainability - **NTT DATA - Intesa Sanpaolo** - Maria Vittoria Trussoni to lead
- [ ]   Quantification of the impact of CO2 on running software - **NTT DATA - Intesa Sanpaolo** - Maria Vittoria Trussoni to lead

> [Presentation link](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kzj6bSsWv7wulCNafy_uIQL_-FAc8YLx/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109189016904402965838&rtpof=true&sd=true)

The ISP Approach

By participating to the GSF and by joining meetings with Partners, Suppliers and Software Vendors, ISP realized that available tools aren’t totally mature. Consequently ISP has decided to embark on a path based on two projects described as follows:

The first project aims to address the introduction of the green index, a score based on the static analysis of code, performed via the standard tool used in the ISP Software Development LifeCycle (i.e. Sonarqube);

The second project focuses on the identification of a tool which would measure the CO2 impact on the running software in the ISP environment.

Introduction of the green index, a score based on the static analysis of code, performed via the standard tool used in the ISP Software Development LifeCycle.

Summary - CO2 impact - Identification of a tool which would measure the CO2 impact of the running software in the ISP environment, based on key metrics available within the perimeter of capacity planning and monitoring tools.

Once identified the relevant metrics (i.e. CPU, Ram, Storage Utilization and Network Traffic), reasonably easy to collect with the use of tools already implemented (such as Monitoring, Troubleshooting and Capacity Plan Software), we’ve developed a bunch of microservices that, performs the following tasks:

Gather hourly samples of relevant metrics per application, invoking APIs, whenever available), receiving files, etc.
Invoke the climatiq APIs to get the CO2 kilos equivalent 
Load the results in a Data Lake infrastructure

Using the dashboard(s) built upon the Data Lake, we’ll be able to ascribe CO2 production to business applications, to prioritize software changes, and to monitor efficiency in development.


## SCI PR's / Issues

- [ ] [Question re: location-based marginal emissions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/258)

## Open Issues and Discussions (Discussion)

- [ ]  [Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/227) - **Srini to lead**
  - **PR for review** - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/256

Srini not available - PR to be reviewed when Srini is present
   
- [ ]  [Farm Insights - Raspberry Pi #241](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/241) - **Tammy to lead**

> Issue closed

### Discussions for review

> [Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

- [ ]  [Using SCI to measure purchased software #252](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/253?converting=1)

> Seebach not available

## Project Updates

- [ ]  CLJ (Avenade)- [SCI Reporting](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-reporting) - 
    - GitHub repo - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-reporting

> Chris unavailable to discuss the SCI reporting
    

- [ ] Ziliang (TU) [Evaluating the Software Carbon Intensity of Foundation Models update](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/eval_sci_of_foundation_models)
    - Google doc https://docs.google.com/document/d/16bcRAyN9ZxVKNf1GkaIbDJXnxvIo7Goe/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs
    - Github repo - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/eval_sci_of_foundation_models

> Ziliang - Reviews the Foundation Models - So what we're trying to do is to use the SEI metrics to evaluate the, you know, carbon impact of different foundation models, foundation models are kind of like the most complex, large AI models. So that's why we're interested in analysing that using the ICI index. This is the purpose of the project. And then this is the data hub, if you're interested in learning more, so you could just with this GitHub project. So I would like to give a quick update today, because I just updated all the documents I'm presenting today to the GitHub, so it's actually in the reporting, if you click the reporting, so all the you know, data reports I present today is there. Alrighty. So, first of all, you know, for the foundation models, you know, you know, we think that we cannot just evaluate the co2. So, because when people use those financial models, we have to look at their accuracy, you have to look at their, you know, response time, power and energy. So, when we try to evaluate, we try to value from multiple dimensions about this one. So, you know, in this in this preliminary results, I am, you know, exploring what are the methodologies we're using. So, for the time, that was relatively easy, right, so, because when you stop me the prompt to the foundation models, and then we measured the time, so how quickly different model can give me a, give me an answer for that. So, that's the time so the power, you know, so to measure the power consumption from the CPU and GPU side, and then we develop the tools.

Quesion - The how you calculate calculated the functional unit? 
Ziliang - So this is how kind of like we calculate, among the three years of time, we can we can serve, we can serve this much of a request, right? Maximum length. Because each request takes this much time, right? So we measured that response time. And then over the three years of time, you know, you have this many seconds. So over three years, we have this much of time in total. So divided by requests per how many seconds per request. So this is the total number of requests we could get. Okay. So yeah, I'm so open to all the suggestions because we have to make a assumptions, because we don't have all the data. So we have to make assumptions in order to give the preliminary results calculation. But you know, we definitely open to any suggestions if you have any. So once we got this are, so what we did is to you know, each request takes this much energy, and then we have we have total this much of request, right maximum Li, so then we got the total kilowatt hour. And then then also we calculate the total number of lines, maximum theoretical maximum runs for each of these models. And then then we calculate the, you know, total emissions, like versus this embodied carbon, we use that equation to calculate that for each one of these models. So that's the result. And then once we plug in all these into the SEI equation, so this is this is the final sei score we got. 

**Case study updates:** [Deferred]

- [ ] Shell (Adam) 
- [ ] Goldman Sachs (Sarah) - infrastructure
- [ ] Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study 
- [ ]  Gadhu NTT 
- [ ]  CLJ Avanade - two interested parties, waiting for approval to share names
- [ ]  CLJ Avanade - website improvements, more real, starting on the website evaluation now (3/24)
- [ ]  Henry - University of Washington - language comparison for same task 
- [ ] Tammy Microsoft/Dow (chemical) (Tammy) - working on ML based case study

## WG Meeting Schedule

- [ ]  Next meeting 07th July

> Agreed

## Any Other Business

> No other business

## Adjournment

> Motion to close the meeting - No objections - Meeting closed

