## 2022.01.13 Minutes
Time 1630 PM (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

[Meeting link](https://zoom.us/j/97813672712?pwd=MkRpUzczUmQ5QVFQb3pheEpDa05tUT09)

## Roll call
Henry Richards - TW <br>
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Abhishek Gupta - MS<br>
Srinivasan Rakhunathan - MS<br>
Alyssa Cooper - MS<br>
Lopez Dominguez - Globant<br>
Sara Bergman - MS<br>
Tammy McClellan - MS<br>
Tiago Laranjeiro - Avanade<br>
Natalie Hollier - MS<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.01.13 Agenda

Sean reviews the agenda - Tammy motions to approve the Agenda - No objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.12.06_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.01.06_minutes.md)

Tammy motions to approve the minutes - No objections - Minutes approved

### Review Submitted SCI PRs

> Henry to lead

**PRs**

> No submitted PR's to review

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

> Henry lead the discussion and Issues

**Issues for Review**

[Issues tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues)

1. [question about boundaries, infrastructure components, and the development of the software](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/222)

Henry started the discussion by reviewing the issue that related to a comment against the boundaries section.
Working group discussed the following;

Other lower environments as well (dev, test, etc). Is each developer environment included?
Partially included:"Supporting systems may include [...] building and deploy pipeline, operations, monitoring, backup[...]" - Maybe needs Devops costs/emissions, example: developers searching for ideal architecture will have significant impact.

Maybe for v1: advise to split into running cost and development cost, - maintaining and deploying updates has significant costs/impacts, but do not scale by same R/functional unit, how do we overcome this?
LCA precedent: Split into stages [raw material, production, use, end of life]. Shows breakdown. Use model for SCI spec.
Distinguish between the two spheres (operating and development), maybe report separately. Bridge that distinction, maybe version 2 accommodates this.
Looking at production system and how they operate, always trying to minimize production scores. Some additional consumption in development.

Embedded system - no access to later, one off choice. Holding future version. Dig into the issue with case studies. Identify if a change needs to be made. Converting to discussions, will migrate to issue/PR.

> Transferred to a Discussion

2. [Test case submission: GreenAI](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/216)

3. [How to calculate the Energy value in the SCI formula (E)](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/217)

Henry started the discussion by reviewing the submitted Issue: 

Srini provided the following link as a example - https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/green-tech-blog/charting-the-path-towards-sustainable-ai-with-azure-machine/ba-p/2866923

- WG discussion points:
WG agree to leave it up to the developer/person scoring the software to determine the best way to calculate E. They should use the best available information (which may be limited in some cases) to calculate a meaningful value.

In a case where no information is available about the hardware energy consumption, it is reasonable to make assumptions/comparisons using other hardware information. Potentially need to report assumptions to give it meaning when reporting score.

> Issue closed

### Discussions for review

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

1. [Explanation of the carbon reduction goal in context of excluding infrastructure #207](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/207)

> Action Item - Discussion with a view to creating a PR - Henry to lead

2. [Milestones for SCI v1](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/212)

> Henry provided an update on the follow proposed case studies 
- Microsoft (Will) - Issue submitted
- Shell (Adam) strong interest
- Goldman Sachs (Sarah) - Intrested in submitting an infrastructure case study
- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study

### Project Proposal

1. [Reporting project- SCI](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/125) **(Deferred to next Meeting)**

> Chris Lloyd-Jones 'Reporting Project-SCI' project submission

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 20th January @1630 (GMT) 
> Agreed

## Any Other Business

> No added business

## Adjournment

Sara motions to adjourn - No objections - Meeting closed @ 1731
