## 2022.03.31 Agenda

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Henry Richardson - WT<br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT<br>
Elmar Borgmeier - Syn<br>
Adam Jordan - Shell<br>
Abhishek Gupta - MSFT <br>
Daniel Lazaro - Aveva<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade<br>
Daniela Bradutanu - GSF<br>
Hing Yon - Avande<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Nick Walker - Avanade<br>

> Meeting transcript - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WeRybJv8a8vunyRe9AawSqP0feVfe2PJ0KKiAGkI7kQ/edit?usp=sharing
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.03.31 Agenda

> Sean reviews the Agenda - Navveen motions to approve the agenda - no objections - Agenda Approved.
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2022.03.24_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.03.24_Minutes.md) 

> Elmar motions for the minutes to be approved - No objections - Minutes Approved

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

1. [Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/227)

Navveen starts the discussion by indicating the next step was to calculate the score for the database, so we went over the methodology and what needs to be calculated, based on the architecture diagram. 
Daniela: We're going to hire a load tester to help with this testcase. We need to agree on a constant number like to discuss it, how much carbon is going to be for this computer and just agree on a constant.
Elmar Borgmeier: What did you mean about the constants.
Daniela: We want to have a constant number, for example, what is the carbon for one computer? With this case type other questions, such as, where do I take the numbers? People who are doing the case studies will know where to take all this information i.e. a spreadsheet created by the GSF. So once a person has a case study and they're requesting certain information the GSF will provide it. We'll have documentation in place for this.

2. [Farm Insights - Raspberry Pi #241](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/241)

Tammy starts the discussion by informing the WG, that this application is as result of an open hack that we did for sustainability, so a team  created a little raspberry pi.net core sensor application. It's running it's updating on Azure like hour, so this is the simplest thing that I could come up with.
Henry Richardson: I think this use case was a little hard, because there was no clear way on how to make a raspberry pi connect to a sensor sweet more carbon efficient, but you can't change the hardware and you can't really change the electricity consumption.

[See added notes in issue](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/241)

TODO:
- explore cloud component of this
- add 'what now' discussion of potential actions to take.

### Discussions for review

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

1. [SCI depends on hardware and usage #244](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/244)

Elmar: Normalized/default SCI? - Future
Gadhu: Buying service, don't have much leverage. Good/bad score, getting a score is the only choice that can be made. But if buying software and running on own hardware, then you can make more granular decisions

Discuss later after case studies?

AI: Henry fixing his pull request/branch that addresses this.

3. [Your SCI score is composed of other SCI scores #235](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/235)

> Discussion not reviewed

5. [Lower Carbon HW as a sustainability action for SW #237](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/237)

> Discussion not reviewed

6. [Compound Functional Unit #238](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/238)

> Discussion not reviewed

**Case study updates:**

- Shell (Adam) strong interest

- Goldman Sachs (Sarah) -infrastructure

- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study (still a bit out) 

- NTT (Gadhu) - start mid april, likely. Three or four customers interested. One confirmed. Internal applications as well. 

- Avanade (Chris) - two interested parties, waiting for approval to share names

- Avanade (Chris) - website improvements, more real, starting on the website evaluation now (3/24)

- University of Washington - language comparison for same task (abhishek)

- Texas State (Ziliang) - Inference model use
> AI: Sean to sync up with Ziliang, to see if he can join the Standards WG every 2 weeks.

- Microsoft/Dow (chemical) (Tammy) - working on ML based case study- WTF (wonderful tiny farm) - Tammy, draft completed: 

## Project Updates

- SCI Reporting

> Not discussed

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 07th Apr @1630 (GMT) 

## Any Other Business

> No other business

## Adjournment

- Navveen motions to adjourn the meeting - no objections - Meeting adjourned
