## 2022.03.24 Agenda

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Henry Richardson - WT<br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT<br>
Elmar Borgmeier - Syn<br>
Adam Jordan - Shell<br>
Amod Mishra - <br>
Daniel Lazaro - Aveva<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade<br>
Daniela Bradutanu - GSF<br>
Hing Yon - Avande<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Nick Walker - Avanade<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.03.24 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Navveen motions to approve the agenda - no objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2022.03.17_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.03.17_Minutes.md) 

> Navveen motions to approve the previous meeting minutes - no objections - minutes approved

## PRs for Approval

- [https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/243#issuecomment-1077828982](Eshoppen case study initial) 

> WG reviewed and agreed the PR --> PR Merged

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

1. [Farm Insights - Raspberry Pi #241](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/241)

> Tammy unavailble to discuss this issue - To be discussed at the next meeting.

### Discussions for review

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

1. [Your SCI score is composed of other SCI scores #235](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/235)

2. [Lower Carbon HW as a sustainability action for SW #237](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/237)

3. [Compound Functional Unit #238](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/238)

4. [SCI depends on hardware and usage](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/244)

Elmar outlines that Syngenio submitted for ICT for as international conference for sustainability, which wasn't accepted, as it wasn't clear enough about the relation between software and emissions. Elmar indicated that as we can see from the SCI formula, it is the energy and the hardware that creates it. Henry indicated that it needs to be highlighted, as we've encountered this confusion before. Some people said 'How does software create emissions' and we indicate that it's created through inducing electricity consumption?
Elmar - from an academic standpoint, the SCI is not software a figure, but it's a software system figure. I think it's really an academic discussion, but it might be useful to state this in the Spec. 
Henry - There are two questions for consideration here - One is that this is how software induces emissions, and is the comparable baselines? There should be one sentence out to say how software induces emissions?

Asim outline some questions for consideration - 
- Should we include, hardware that has gone past its end of life? 
- What are the emissions of that? 
- How much does hardware have to play? 
- How much does the choice of hardware have to play in your SCI score? 
- How much do we want that to play in your SCI score?

> WG agree to discuss this further with a view to updating the Spec,
> Henry to prepare a PR.

[Case study proposal - Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/227)

- AI: Sean to set up meeting between Asim, Navveen, Srini to discuss the case study

**Case study updates:**

- Shell (Adam) strong interest 
> No updates

- Goldman Sachs (Sarah) -infrastructure
> No updates

- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case stud
> No updates

- NTT (Gadhu) - talking to customers for partnership
> Informed the WG that this test case is looking to begin in mid-Apr

- Vodafone (Asim) - might be interested
> No updates

- Avanade (Chris) - two interested parties, waiting for approval to share names
> No updates

- Avanade (Chris) - website improvements, more real
> No updates

- University of Washington - Inference model use
> Abhishek to chase this up

## Project Updates

SCI-Reporting 

Chris - We have use cases and requirements defined now, with an aim to produce the design after the next meeting. Our ITS team have started the case study for the avanade.com - lots of interesting discussions about SAAS inclusions, and the inclusion of js packages, like brightcove, google analytics etc, so will share those

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 31st March @1630 (GMT) 

> Agreed

## Any Other Business

> Nothing

## Adjournment

Asim motions to adjourn - No objections - Meeting adjourned

