## 2022.01.20 Minutes
Time 1630 PM (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

[Meeting link](https://zoom.us/j/97813672712?pwd=MkRpUzczUmQ5QVFQb3pheEpDa05tUT09)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Abhishek Gupta - MS<br>
Henry Richardson - WT<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade<br>
Srini Rakhunathan - MS<br>
Adam Jordan - Shell<br>
Anuja Gadre - TW <br>
Rakesh Varma Siri - MS<br>
Tammy McClennan - MS<br>
Will Buchanan - MS<br>
Tiago Laranjeiro - Avanade <br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.01.20 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Chris motions to agree the agenda - no objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2021.12.13_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.01.13_minutes.md)

> Srini motions to approve the minutes - no objections - minutes agreed

### Review Submitted SCI PRs

> Abhishek to lead

**PRs**

1. [Update Software_Carbon_Intensity_Specification.md #226](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/226)

Srini starts the discussion by review the PR - Qualifying that the elements in the SCI equation scale by the same functional unit R 

Henry mentions that we may want to address situations where software doesn't scale by the functional unit of R or has other multiple factors. For example, the software energy consumption might scale by number of users but the number of environments (dev and test) might change by the number of developers on the team.
Chris added, In terms of 'Various R' we had ‘Activity’ added to the dictionary, so how we identify the various operations being instrumented, to identify R, where R is variable. Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary#2
Might need to go back and make sure this now aligns with the ontology.

> No comment, WG approved the PR - Agreed and merged

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

> Abhishek to lead

**Issues for Review**

[Issues tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues)

1. [question about boundaries, infrastructure components, and the development of the software](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/222)


2. [Test case submission: GreenAI](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/216)

Abhisek posed the question - How do we want to proceed with this Issue. Chris suggested that this can be added into the SCI as an Appendix
Will indicated the University of Washington have been tasked to 'polish' this submission with a view to creating a PR for the WG to review. 
Sean highlighted that the UW is a member of the LF and we should encourage them to join the GSF, which will agreed with.

> Action Item, Will to forward UW contact.

### Discussions for review

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

1. [Include boavizta.org work to evaluate embodied emissions #221](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/221)

> Action Item - Sean to move this over to the SCI Open Data / Innovation WG folks to incorporate into our work.
 
2. [Case study proposal - Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb #225](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/225)

Siri starts the discussion by presenting the Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb

> WG collectivly support this proposal and thank Srini for his submission. For the testing Chris suggested to use DigitalOcean and an standalone Azure account.
> Issue turned into a PR

**Case study potentials:**

- Microsoft (Will) green AI training, writing up outline (not attending)

- Shell (Adam) - Looking to run this through some Application over the next 6-8 weeks

- Goldman Sachs (Sarah) -infrastructure (not attending)

- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study (not attending)

> Action Item - Will to create an issue using the new Case study temple, using this presentation as a basis.

### Project Proposal

1. [Reporting project- SCI](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/125)

Chris Lloyd-Jones starts the discussion by reviewing the 'Reporting Project - SCI project overview.
The working group had no questions and thanked Chris for his project proposal.

> Siri motions to Approve the project - No objection - project approved.

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 20th January @1630 (GMT) 

> Agreed

## Any Other Business

Henry outlines that the WT license is now available for GSF members to use.

> Action Item - Henry to notify Sara so it can be added to the news letter

Gadhu brought up the discussion regarding the SCI 'Functional Unit R'. 
The WG suggested that this is a great topic that should be submitted as a discussion to discuss with the wider WG

> Action Item - Gadhu to create a discussion to capture WG member comments

## Adjournment

> Chris motions to adjourn, no objections - Meeting adjourned
