## 2022.05.26 Minutes

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (BCG)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Henry Richardson - TW<br>
Nick Walker - Avanade<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Adam Jordan - Shell<br>
Gadhu Sundaram - NTTData<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT <br>

[Meeting Recording](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WeRybJv8a8vunyRe9AawSqP0feVfe2PJ0KKiAGkI7kQ/edit)
 
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.05.26 Agenda

> Henry reviews the agenda - Adam motions to approve the minutes - No objections - Minutes approved.
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes

[2022.05.19_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.05.19_Minutes.md) 

> Henry informs the members the Minutes to be approved at the next meeting

## SCI PR's / Issues

**Issues** 

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

1. [Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/227)
2. [Farm Insights - Raspberry Pi #241](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/241)
3. [[Note for future] Shift focus to Life Cycle Assessment for the Hardware inputs?](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/254?converting=1)

### Discussions for review

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

- [SCI feedback from greeNsort #248](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/248)
- [Using SCI to measure purchased software #252](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/253?converting=1)


## Project Updates

- [SCI Reporting](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-reporting)
- [Evaluating the Software Carbon Intensity of Foundation Models update](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16bcRAyN9ZxVKNf1GkaIbDJXnxvIo7Goe/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs)

**Case study updates:**

- Shell (Adam) strong interest
> So we selected a handful of teams to do the calculation, some on premise and some in the cloud. But ultimately, when we go to dig into it, running sei is just taking too long, right? So for example, our cloud solutions were better off going with the Microsoft impact dashboards. And or similar for AWS to kind of just shortcuts it to what carbon has actually been emitted from our solution, and not having to go through all the calculations. So more or less, we opted in for the cloud solutions to to not go the STI route. I still think there's options to do that for on premise. And so we're looking at how can we monitor energy use at the on premise data centre level at the moment? So we can see what our footprint looks like down to a resource and resource group level from say Azure. And so we're working with them to see how can we drive that knowledge down to the team level today, right you need to be sort of a super admin with The only information we actually see this kind of data, and so how do we make that available to the delivery team? So they can actually make decisions based upon it is what we're trying to work with them on at that moment. So it's essentially just taking the opposite approach is what we would with SCI. 


- Goldman Sachs (Sarah) -infrastructure
> Not available

- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study (still a bit out) 
> Not available

- NTT (Gadhu) - start mid april, likely. Three or four customers interested. One confirmed. Internal applications as well. 
> there's a team working along with one of our customers, whose's also a GSF. They are also  using a different set of metrics, and they're trying to see how that maps to SCI. And I've given them the dates of our meetings and m to come and present their findings. 

- Avanade (Chris) - two interested parties, waiting for approval to share names
> Not available

- Avanade (Chris) - website improvements, more real, starting on the website evaluation now (3/24)
> Not available

- University of Washington - language comparison for same task (abhishek)
> Not available

- Microsoft/Dow (chemical) (Tammy) - working on ML based case study
> Not available

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 2nd June
> Agreed

## GSF Global Summit

Reminder - https://summit.greensoftware.foundation/

> Tammy provides an Update of the upcoming GSF Summit

## Any Other Business

## Adjournment

> Tammy moitions to adjourn - No objections - Meeting closed
