## 2022.09.15 Minutes

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (BCG)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF
Tammy McClellan - MSFT
Henry Richardson (WattTime)
Srini - MSFT
Sara Bergman - MSFT
Navveen Balani - Accenture
Sylvia Downing - Intel
Erik Lueders - MC
Ben Logan - UBS
Asim Hussain - Intel
Deepak Sharma - TW
gadhu.sundaram - NTT Data
Navveen Balani - Accenture

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.09.15 Agenda
> Asim motions to approve the agenda - no objections - agenda approved

## Minutes Approval (decision) 

[2022.09.08_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.09.08.Minutes.md)
> Asim motions to approve the Minutes - no objections - minutes approved

## SCI Review

Consistency review reminder
- From 09 Sept --> 1630 (BST) 22 Sept
- The SCI Spec can be [reviewed here](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/blob/dev/Software_Carbon_Intensity/Software_Carbon_Intensity_Specification.md)
- Please submit your comments as an [Issue here](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/new/choose)

[SCI PR's](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pulls)

> WG to review and agree PR's
- [x] [306](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/306)
- Editorial updates applied - Agreed and merged

[SCI Submitted issues](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues)

> WG to review issues and decide if a PR should be raised?

### [Discussions for review](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

- [x] [Methodology](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/301)

WG: maybe this should become a 2.0/1.1 issue? Important issue to incentivize the right behavior.

Add statement to spec? Add to FAQ?
Include statement about why M is included in spec. And prevent bad practices like hardware churn.

Current Calc:
Pros:
-People will provision less hardware (on prem or cloud) (Asim)
-Incentivize prolonging life of hardware (Sara)

Cons:
-Accelerate hardware retirement by moving to lower embodied emissions hardware ("software driven hardware obsolescence) (Ben)

## Case study updates

> Are the following Use cases still valid, should they be removed? **[Deferred]**

- [ ] Accenture (Navveen) --> Update expected Mid to late Sept

- [ ] Gadhu NTT --> Update expected Mid Sept

- [ ] Henry - University of Washington 

- [ ] Pindy - UBS --> Update expected Mid Sept

- [ ] Wendy - AVEVA --> Update expected Mid Sept

- [ ] Tammy - MSFT/Dow - Working on SCI based case study

## [WG Webpage](https://standards.greensoftware.foundation) context development

- [x] [Creation of supporting pages for docusaurus](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/294)
- [x] Defining the language of what is a 'case study' is.
- [x] Wiki and FAQ - request for members submissions / suggestions

> WG agree to create an FAQ template for members to submit

AI: Sean to create an FAQ

## WG Meeting Schedule

- [ ]  Next meeting 22nd Sept
- > Agreed

## Any Other Business

[New Agenda / Minutes format](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/training/issues/55)

## Adjournment

Asim motions to adjourn - no objections - meeting closed
