**Draft - Details to be added**

## 2022.01.27 Minutes
Time 1630 PM (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

[Meeting link](https://zoom.us/j/97813672712?pwd=MkRpUzczUmQ5QVFQb3pheEpDa05tUT09)

## Roll call

Sean Mcilroy - LF
Henry Richards - WT
Srini Rakhunathan - 
Zililang Zong - TU
Anuja Gadre - TW
Gadhu Sundaram - NTT Data
Navveen Balani - Accenture
William Buchanan - MS
Tammy McCellan - MS
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.01.27 Agenda

> Sean reviews the Agenda - Tammy motions to approve the agenda - No objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2022.01.20_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.01.20_minutes.md)

Srini motions to approve the agenda - no objections - Minutes approved

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

> Henry to lead

### Discussions for review

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

1. [Case study proposal - Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb #225](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/225)

Srini offers an overview of the ongoing Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb - original Proposal - Deploy the application in Web based services on any cloud provider . For e.g App service in Azure with backend SQL server. For managed azure services, we will get the Vcore , RAM specs (# of cores , 3 GB/4 GB RAM). Calculate M based on spec sheet . Need to find out if we can get the thermal design power TDP value from the specs.
Run the application in Azure and calculate CPU consumption, Memory consumption and Disk consumption. Use the combination of these values to come up with E value.
Use Watt time API to get the marginal carbon intensity value of I for the data center in which the application is deployed. R will be the functional unit here. In this case, we can consider R as "per number of users". For example SCI value of x per 100 users or 1000 users depending on the non functional requirements of the application.

Ziliang - https://devblogs.microsoft.com/sustainable-software/how-can-i-calculate-co2eq-emissions-for-my-azure-vm/

Henry provided a list of global annual marginal emissions factors: https://unfccc.int/climate-action/sectoral-engagement/ifis-harmonization-of-standards-for-ghg-accounting/ifi-twg-list-of-methodologies

2. [SCI should be dimensionless and abstract #230](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/230)

WG review the submitted discussion - SCI should be dimensionless and abstract

- Henry: thinks real world units are important, real world emission reduction when the score changes
- How do we change the current score (emissions per unit) to a unitless rating.
- Baseline for each software type?
- Should view it as a relative score
- can see the relative intensity of different choice
- Rating of software, make improvements, can see the score improve
- Reinforces use of specification/score as a tool to help developers/users identify strategies to decrease emissions of their software
- currently useful for identifying strategies
- Not useful for comparing different software between different organizations (and may not yet be intended to do that). Underlying mechanics are the same?

Gadhu - Different implementations/boundaries (test might be different, different software stack, different definitions of boundary, different measurements of intensity). Underlying data may also be different

Model/ideal implementation is comparable, but actual current data availability might not be in a place to support that Current implementation does allow comparison within one software

Ziliang - Indicated

Henry suggest submitting this observation to the SCI-Reporting (Chris Lloyd-Jones)

3. [H * M ? #228](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/228)

Sean informed the WG that  Syngenio will be joining the GSF as member in the coming days
> Working Group: @ElmarBorgmeier Would you be willing to join a conversation about this with the working group?

> Henry to lead

**Case study potentials:**
- Microsoft (Will) green AI training, writing up outlined
- Shell (Adam) strong interest (Not available)
- Goldman Sachs (Sarah) -infrastructure (Not available)
- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case study - Provided an overview 
- Srini Rakhunathan - See discussion #225

## SCI-Reporting project update

Project lead - Chris Lloyd-Jones - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-reporting

## WattTime License now available

> Henry to announce

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 3rd February @1630 (GMT) 

## Any Other Business

Ziliang - Proposed project - AI model 

Will submitted a PR - https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/231

No objectsions - PR approved & Merged

## Adjournment

Srini motions to Adjourn - no objections - Meeting closed

