## 2022.03.17 Minutes

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (MSFT)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

## Roll call

Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Henry Richards - WT<br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT<br>
Srinivasan Rakhunathan - MSFT<br>
Anand Ram - VMware<br>
Daniel Lazaro - Aveva<br>
Gadhu Sundaram - NTTData<br>
Natalie Hollier - MSFT<br>
Nick Walker - Avanade <br>
Abhishek Gupta - MSFT<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.03.17 Agenda

Sean reviews the Agenda - Asim motions to approve the agenda - No objectsions - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes
[2022.03.10_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.03.10_Minutes.md) 

Gadhu motions to approve the previous meeting minutes - No objections - Minutes approved

## Pull Requests for review 

1. [Resolve outstanding dictionary issues within the SCI repo #2](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Dictionary/pull/2)

> WG agreed the PR and Merge

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

### Discussions for review

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

1. [Your SCI score is composed of other SCI scores #235](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/235)

> WG agreed that once they have conducted the case studies, they will add a sentence to describe how scores can be aggregated from other scores.

2. [Lower Carbon HW as a sustainability action for SW #237](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/237)

> Not discussed

3. [Compound Functional Unit #238](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/238)

WG discussion points:

- To solve comparability, may have to have context.
- R is definition of context, could be long descriptions
- What is a 'user' actully
- If using the SCI outside of the original calculation, you must understand the context.

**Case study updates:**

- Shell (Adam) strong interest 
> No updates

- Goldman Sachs (Sarah) -infrastructure
> No updates

- Accenture (Navveen) - identifying case stud
> No updates

- NTT (Gadhu) - talking to customers for partnership
> Informed the WG that this test case is looking to begin in mid-Apr

- Vodafone (Asim) - might be interested
> No updates

- Avanade (Chris) - two interested parties, waiting for approval to share names
> No updates

- Avanade (Chris) - website improvements, more real
> No updates

- University of Washington - Inference model use
> Abhishek to chase this up

- Microsoft/Dow (Tammy) - working on ML based case study
> Tammy to offer updates next week

Asim has proposed if the WG can focus on a single case study, such as Srini. Abhishek, proposed to focus on Srini's test case for the next 4 weeks, as this will was so productive when applying the same method to the SCI. The WG supported Abhishek's proposal.


## [Eshoppen case study initial draft #243](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/pull/243)

The working group reviewed the Eshoppen case study initial draft, test case. 

Srini highlights this is a case study for calculation of SCI score for eshoponWeb web application. The initial draft is done for the App server now and will be extended in future for other components that are excluded for now. Srini continued to outline in details the submitted use case.

a. Included - App server for the Web application

b. Excluded 

* Front end web application .This is the browser  client that is displaying the application to the end users on their desktop/mobile/laptop etc.
* Network traffic between browser client  and application server
* Network traffic between application servers and databases 
* Database server
* Test infrastructure:  These include the load test resources that were used to simulate virtual users and http requests to the web server.Since the infrastructure and the associated energy usage do not fit into the same functional unit scale as defined in the SCI formula, these components are excluded from the software’s SCI calculation.

## Project Updates

## WG Election notifiction

Sean outlined the Green Software Foundation will be accepting Chair nominations for the Standards Working Group Chairs until 18th Mar.
Sponsor and General Members are permitted to be candidates for chair positions.

## WG Meeting Schedule

- Next meeting 24th March @1630 (GMT) 

## Any Other Business

> No other business added

## Adjournment

Gadhu motions to adjourn - No objections - Meeting adjourned
