## 2022.06.02 Agenda

Time 1630 (GMT)

- Co-Chair – Abhishek Gupta (BCG)
- Co-Chair - Henry Richards (WattTime)
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy (Linux Foundation)

[Meeting recording](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WeRybJv8a8vunyRe9AawSqP0feVfe2PJ0KKiAGkI7kQ/edit?usp=sharing)

## Roll call
Sean Mcilroy - LF <br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Erik Jokela - Avanade<br>
Nick Walker - Avanade<br>
Henry Richardson - TW<br>
Srinivasan Rakhunathan - MSFT<br>
max - SDIA <br>
Adam Jordan - Shell<br>
Ziliang Zong - TU<br>
Abhishek Gupta - BCG<br>
Sudakshina Palit - VMware<br>
Daniel Lazaro - AVEVA<br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.06.02 Agenda

> Sean reviews the Agenda - Adam motions to approve the agenda - No objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes

[2022.05.26_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/standards_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.05.26_Minutes.md)

> Navveen motions to approve the minutes - No objections - Minutes approved

## Eval_SCI_of_Foundation_Models

Ziliang reviews [Eval_SCI_of_Foundation_Models](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Eval_SCI_of_Foundation_Models)

> Ziliang provides an update and demo of the tooling. 

[See recording for demonstration](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WeRybJv8a8vunyRe9AawSqP0feVfe2PJ0KKiAGkI7kQ/edit?usp=sharing)

**From 10mins --> 20mins**

## SCI PR's / Issues

**Issues** 

## Review Open Issues and Discussions (Tagged High) (Discussion)

1. [Ecommerce web application using eShoponWeb](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/227)

Srini - this is almost this case studies almost coming to its last stages, we didn't have much going on this week. But where we are today is to wrap up the results that we are getting from the load testing person that we have engaged. So he has shared the first set of results, and it is in alignment with what we had theoretically predicted. So I have the CI calculations done for three of his tests. And then he will do three or more of three more tests with virtual machine different virtual machine configurations. And I will document it and put it in the master case study. But I guess what was interesting is now we'll have to look at it. Look at two things, right one, how do we validate what we are saying is the number coming out of this case study is a is a validation mechanism. And related to that point, I'm looking at taking the conversation with Boavista. to the next level, because we need to, we had the first long round of talks with them. Daniella, myself, Michigan, Henry, you were there, right? Yes, yeah. Okay. So they, I spoke to Danielle as today. And she said, they will have to set up a follow up call where we will get into the next level of details to understand how do we integrate with their API. And if we can do that, then under the same environmental conditions in which we ran this case study, we will use the robust APA and comparisons.

AI: Srini to reach out to CLJ to discuss the project submission to the SCR Reporting tool.

2. [Farm Insights - Raspberry Pi #241](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/issues/241)
> Tammy unavailable 

3. [Note for future] Shift focus to Life Cycle Assessment for the Hardware inputs?](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/254?converting=1)

Max - we take in everything we are building a DSA, we're always considering the whole life cycle of the the underlying digital resource generator, so the hardware plus the data centre plus the energy.
I think they're so there's there's a problem with the LCA methodology as applied to software, right, because software doesn't physically exist. So you can't say that software is creating a certification or creating health damages.
So infrastructure converts electricity. So hardware plus data centre converts electricity into something else, CPU, memory, storage, those resources. And those resources haven't, they can have an LCA. So to each resource can create an environmental damage. And I think that can be considered carbon is a very limited measurement, especially when you consider the full lifecycle of hardware
I think even just just the amount of I think, refinement and thinking that we've had to do even to get to a place where we're able to do do it from the perspective of just carbon alone has been quite quite, quite tremendous in terms of the effort required, right? I, I don't know if we'd be able to do it justice if we started to bring in other elements just because I mean, it would require a tonne more thinking and I don't know, maybe maybe for like a week or two off the standard, we start to consider that but for or changing?
I think that software shouldn't consider for LCA software just should account for the resources it uses. But I think what would be helpful if in as part of the standard, you say, Look, we need LCA information for the underlying resources. So kind of like credit, setting a demand on the supply chain of whoever is delivering resources to the software should make that LCA data available. Because that's also your carbon reading, then if each user if each CPU cycle and each gigabyte of memory has carbon attached to it, when it's when it's reported to you, then you can report that out through the software, then the software can determine its own carbon footprint.
Henry - We agree, I think we think it's very important that we get LCA, carbon LCA information for the underlying hardware. We are just saying, do we want to do more than just carbon? And that's a hard and it looks like Abishek? I kind of agree with memberships position. But I want to make sure that that's a agreed upon position of the group here.


Daniel: considers effects in other realms, software<br>
LCA for underlying hardware would be helpful.<br>
Abhishek: carbon was quite difficult alone. Should currently restrict ourselves to carbon. Maybe include other environmental impacts in future versions. (Henry supports).<br>
Henry noted to the submitter - We really appreciate this suggestion, but currently think that carbon is our primary focus. We may revisit this in future versions.<br>

Action Item - Sean to add this to the next agenda

### Discussions for review

[Discussions tab](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions)

- [SCI feedback from greeNsort #248](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/248)
> Not reviewed

- [Using SCI to measure purchased software #252](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/software_carbon_intensity/discussions/253?converting=1)
> Not reviewed

## Project Updates

- [SCI Reporting](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-reporting)

- [Evaluating the Software Carbon Intensity of Foundation Models update](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16bcRAyN9ZxVKNf1GkaIbDJXnxvIo7Goe/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs)
> See Ziliang demo


**Case study updates:**

- Shell (Adam) strong interest

- NTT (Gadhu) - start mid april, likely. Three or four customers interested. One confirmed. Internal applications as well. 

- University of Washington - language comparison for same task (Henry)
> one of the things that they're working on is writing case a case study for different software, like algorithms, like, if you do if you take an action in what, in one way or another, use different sorting algorithms, what is the emissions difference of those different actions? And that should be hardware agnostic or independent? They're also talking about using different languages. So if you use language one or language two to perform the same action, are there differences in carbon intensity of those two things? And I think they're looking for examples of how we've talked about this in the past.
AI: Henry to introduce members of WU to TU (Ziliang) with a view to collaborating with each other.

Navveen -  we are starting a case study internally. And the application is mostly based, mostly container based using a container management solution. So that would be interesting to identify how we can do the SEM measurement for containers. We were getting started. I don't have a data yet. But I will require a lot of inputs on the data primary from a container perspective.
So it's an eight to 12 week exercise that we plan to complete, but it will be interesting case study on using containers, specifically containers, right how they scale how do you measure it?

Max - What we learned in our measurements is that we in the beginning, we also ignored disks, and memory, I think memory can still be valid, we think it attributes for about 10 to 20% of total power use of the server. But what we have learned is that NVMe disks and SSDs are considerable power users. Very different because current research and data that you find out there is based on often based on HDD, so on spinning disks, and spinning disks have a reduced power draw when they are not being used. Because the disk doesn't have to spin in principle. But NVMe disks, for example, have to be always fully powered on. At least that's how I understand it. And we know from a few manufacturers that that's the case, and they would prefer not people to find out about it.
Ziliang - is there a way to measure the SSD, the power consumption,
Max - not from software, that's why we resorted what I said at the beginning to measure physical power of the server. Because when you see that, and then you overlap the profiling data that you just showed, your mind blown. So to say, like, actually CPU is not as significant as it was in 2008, for example.

AI: Sean to add this topic to the next agenda
## WG Meeting Schedule

Next meeting 9th June
> Agreed

## GSF Global Summit

Reminder - https://summit.greensoftware.foundation/
> Sean offers a quick update

## Any Other Business
> Nothing added

## Adjournment

> Sean asks if there are any objections to close the meeting - no objections - meeting closed
